Nor Byron, Walter Scott, nor Seneca,Fair source of every fine idea,Upon the highway of the seaYe billows of blue Hadrias sea,Time to denote by dinner, tea,Perchance where Dunia pours out teaIts name, my friends, was Martin Zadeka,At last the author! cries Mamma.But sudden fear assailed Tattiana,Onguines Letter to TattianaSay, of the two which was Tattiana?And silent as the maid SvetlanaAnd I, remembering Svetlana,Next Saturday. The LrinaVerses and tears et cetera.Bouynoff whisked off Poustiakova.To Tania Lenski; Kharlikova,Each other as the shore we climb!Opened the portals of the tombMy poor Vladimir! In the tomb,And lo! where lies a marble tombHe writes upon his parents tomb,Or for the solitary tombIs the world to him sealed and dumb?The inmate is for ever dumb,And oft its Dictionary thumb.He oft upon his lips would curb,Thinking: tis foolish to disturbHe found them in an almanac,And Virtue acts as a narcotic,And triumphs in career erotic.What! really going? Tis too bad!Above the ashes of the dead.Ah! than a spectre from the deadSome are afar and some are dead.To seek him out with bended head.Shaking with serious air the head,Now of a family the head,Wheneer he had an aching head;And soon Lel hovered o'er her head.His shop, a night-cap on his head,All silently hung down his head.And gently hovered o'er my head?For patience, reader, I must plead!And thoughtlessness to woe might lead.But on the third of grove and meadOr a swift hare from mead to meadBut ah! discerns nor wood nor meadAnd pauses oft to serve out bread.With shame I shudder and with dreadAnd it may be a secret dreadUnto a ruthless tyrant dread.I slumber much, a little read,For on their brows I trembling readThe first-fruits of my tale I read,Do not excuse yourself. I readSome nice instructive novel read,And lessons to his children read.But presently she tried to read;Tis finished. Horrible to read!No other book had time to read.A little farther please to readNor slander viciously could spreadAnd two old pines their branches spreadThe pile of books, with carpet spreadThereon the passing traveller read:But word for word his letter read.That certain volumes she might read.I Apuleius gladly readFor the impatient chief instead.And cool sagacious mind he had:Although we know that Eugene hadTattiana loved as when a lad,Inhabited the country, cladAttentive listened to the lad.In dressing-gown, a cuckold glad:But Lenski, I should be so gladTime flies! a genial air abroad,Could taste the pleasures of the road.He long should have been on the road.Grant that I err not on the road.He dragged her by a forest roadAn idle anchorite and sad,His arm he offers. Mute and sadIn love-lorn meditation sad.I was incensed and he was sad.(_Mechanically_, let us add),Still certain authors, I may add,At seven in summer rose from bed,With book in hand reclined in bed,Undressed herself and went to bedAroused Tattiana from her bed.With hopeless passion: from her bedTis time for supper, now for bed,Beneath the window-sill his bed,And finally, upon his bedShe could not sleep in her new bed.So she her silken sash unlaced,Upon the tumbled sofa placed,Right opposite Tattiana placed,Bear goneshe at the threshold placed;Eugene in hackney carriage placed.The ancient _barshtchina_ replacedMost carefully Zaretski placedExcept one by the window placedBeneath her downy pillow placed,The friends are called and quickly placed.He on his bosom gently placedIn coach or post-cart duly placedAnd exclamations interlaced.The two old ladies then embracedLay all the girls by sleep embraced,In what he merely acquiesced.To all good neighbours sport conduced.At Lrinas abode producedMost by this circumstance offendedAll overtures of friendship ended.The workpeople she superintended,The bath on Saturdays attended,Vice had due punishment awarded,Virtue was with a bride rewarded.When to enlarge we shall succeed,It may be that I did proceedNot all will like myself proceedThither in future to proceedAnd cares not farther to proceed;Tis done. To supper they proceed.Will not five centuries exceedHe was a dangerous fool indeed.Mortally sick I am indeed.His uncle, busy man indeed,Remarkable. She then indeedHissed forth. With serious air indeed,Of fleeting glory take no heed.But I perceive thou dost not heedHe took no more the slightest heed;Enough, arise! for much we needUp to the attic, and all needShe seeks the garden in her needWhither and wherefore do I speedHad run across her path at speed,Wheneer across the plain at speedNay, nearbut destiny decreedFrom the moist cork the bottle freedAnd all with one accord agreed,Alone she gallops on her steed,On the dull stage find all things changed,But the date subsequently changedBy visions who was ne'er derangedThe wedding-day had been arranged,Nor from the mob polite estranged,A careless looker-on estrangedA breathless silence then, prolongedWhat visions then her fancy throngedWhat bitter tears with thee I shed!And bitter tears of fright I shed.Drive out the cattle from their shed,And in society might shedI mourn, but tears I cannot shedJust at that time his father died,My mother-in-law who lately diedVice in romance is glorifiedCustoms by ages sanctified,A visionary mortified,But now our minds are mystifiedWas with himself dissatisfied.But in his heart dissatisfied,And ringing wine-glasses are plied.Alack! Tattiana, she replied,Lenski unto the dame replied,And a new diadem supplied.The new moons crescent slim she spied,Tattianas trouble might have spied,By other thoughts be occupied.By a rich pie were occupiedLongtime her mind is occupied.The princess from the sofa criedI shall expire, Tattiana cried,And not a speck of dirt descried.The matter by his conscience tried,To sketch myself that I have triedDelusions of a mind untried,I should alarm our friendship tried:Successfully to please her tried,Ah no! no faintness her attackedThe balls impelled, the blunt cue chalked;And a long time about her talked.He round the billiard-table stalked,Whither two neighbouring dames have walkedAs if he cruelly had joked!Shamefaced, Tattiana downward lookedThis life in masquerade concealed,I cannot longer wage concealed.By melancholy fogs concealed.Tell me, of sentiments concealedAnd such unconsciously he led,He conversation would have ledMore swift the room Tattiana fled,Nor marked how summers prime had fledSweet slumber winged its way and fled.Soon, of the tempest which hath fledAnd soon the friendly troop hath fled.But, I acknowledge, from them fled;Of the Tattiana of times fled.What ails thee?Nothing.He is fled.Repose her silken curtains fled,The troop of apparitions fled,Nay! even as this instant fled,The pains of night have wholly fled,And ruthless fashion hath blackballed.Of London life is vulgar calledIs it that I am now compelledCried the old dame with anguish filled:And with remorseful anguish filled,As if with eider-down is filled.Zaretski shouted: Why, hes killed!And heard a voice cry_Why! Hes killed!_The channel of the river stilledOur tender dreamer had enrolledA gambling troop when he controlled,A hermits life Onegin led,A life of fact, not fiction, ledBy Faublas in his youth was schooled,And to the field of honour led;Surely ye all have overhauledWith blood instead of ink she scrawled,Which all her darling friends have scrawledAnd in her conversation drawled.But since to the backdoor they ledTransparent o'er the Neva beamedThe peace which on his forehead beamed,But kindness from his eye had beamedAnd when the watery mirror gleamedHer the ideal which he dreamed,As if some troubled dream she dreamed.The purest of the dreams we dreamed,She never of deception dreamedHis elegies, which plenteous streamed,The blood gushed from the wound and steamedWhy is Tattiana guiltier deemed?A few of different temper deemed,Onegin was so many deemed,But one buffoon unhappy deemedAnd to revive Tattiana seemed.Both natural and truthful seemed.And endless the cotillon seemedThat our desires which noblest seemed,Feeling in others much esteemed.A notoriety proclaimed,Because my lord, in battles maimed,When hopes delightful flower but bloomedHe thought so, and existence charmed.And he who, jealousy disarmed,How soon to habits she conformedAh! how Tattiana was transformed,To say farewell, and fussed and fumedOnly her countenance assumedThe manly toga scarce assumed,Tattiana in despair unfeignedWhere many another hand had signedAnd vows will probably be signed:Her money counted, and designedTall, slender, like thy form designed,Made revelations undesigned,Though, God be praised! he ne'er designedCaricatures he now designedThat, for the century designed,Or even, silent and resigned,Spring cheered him up, and he resignedTo arid selfishness resigned,When harsh demeanour hath consignedWhich Autumn late to earth consigned,Once more to idleness consigned,Have eer a precious tress consigned,His lyre, to silence now consigned,What do I ask? What cause assignedA happy destiny ordained:A valuable hostage gained,A modern Regulus unchained,Tattiana o'er the stream complained;Whose hearts responsive have remainedRooted unto the spot remained.Inseparable they remained.O ye whom tender love hath painedAnd saying this Vladimir drainedShe consolation thence obtainedA something somehow have obtained,At fifty who relief obtainedMy sum of happiness contained;He sang of life's fresh colours stainedHath tranquilly in turn attained,Before he eighteen years attained.With us is easily attained.The fruits of learning and combinedAnd handsome countenance combined,A tender couplet he combined,With intellect, a taste refined,His chambers close wherein confinedLove to idealize inclined;At first for books was disinclined,I'm not for witchcraft now inclined.And on the last one, underlined:Anticipating woe she pined,The venerable dame opinedCertain misfortune near opined.Now a long branch itself entwinedConstant affection intertwinedIf the fond hope I could have fannedTattiana (nurse the project planned)There, aping Gulnares bard, he spannedThough Baratynski verses penned,The date was fixed though oft postponed,The maidens weary eye which yearned,A spirit which for sorrow yearned.Tattiana more than ever burnedHis neighbours lowly tomb and mournedTattiana thanks to all returned,To his Penates now returned,The voice of jealousy is drowned.He on the conflagration frowned.Or to pick up her kerchief stooped.Our heroes at full gallop sped,The matchmaker a fortnight sped,Into the cups already spedOf lackeys in her pathway grouped,Of his approach; but nothing caredA countenance perplexed and scared.An explanation: she was scared,Her features no grimaces bleared;Another with cocks head appeared,But Adam Smith to read appeared,The tea, as I remarked, appeared,A stable, kitchen, fence appeared.A faithful model she appearedTo an assemblyshe appearedBut this a heinous crime appearedBut in the drawing-room all appearedAnd Tanias husband soon appeared.For evermore had disappeared.O yes! my hopes soon disappeared.My image hath not disappeared,With Olga; nor of this appearedIn dressing-gown at meals appeared.Meals, secrets, occupations shared?Asunder was and hate prepared?He went notsooner was preparedI mused: perhaps the matters squaredQuarrels among young friends he bredUpon the Dons broad pastures bredBoth ducks and geese in plenty bredHomer, Theocritus, he jeered,And many another slily sneered;In her affairs ne'er interfered,Seemed in a haze of green embowered.The valleys dried and gaily flowered;Their glory with their heels of redHis soul by crash of music fired,Extinct the flame which once had fired;By indolence and languor firedSinging God knows what maid admired,To kiss the feet which I admired!In amorous flights when so inspired,His tea with rum no more desired,Tis in your power now, if desired,How like the billow I desiredThe fated nutriment desired;And both of dull existence tired,I write to you! Is more required?I long by ballets have been bored,An ace at fifteen paces bored.Since Fame and Freedom he adored,Though beauty he no more adored,His ruffian bravery adored,Either she saw not or ignored;Neighbour by neighbour sat and snored,And harmony was soon restored.Contented and with victuals stored,Deeming himself a veteran scarredI long enough deceived have erred.Of the romances she preferred,And what she from the cards inferred.The Medal Otchakoff conferred!Tattiana every day conferredThus widely meditation erred,Tattiana through the forest erred,Of Olga he in song averred;As Saadi anciently averredIn the recesses what hath stirredWhilst from her countenance ne'er stirredAnd by a partial temper stirredAnd by a genuine sorrow stirred,Onguines speeches I abhorredSit many monstrous shapes abhorred.He who economy abhorred,What hath he dreamed? What hath occurred?Of censure for the same incurred;The poet from Tamboff secured,Till proper rings could be procured.Now Didelot scarce can be endured!At first, but soon became inuredOn melted wax in water poured;Odes Lenski also had outpoured,In fact, some people were assuredRebuffedas quickly reassured,A marriageable maid matured,Thy cheek is as a poppy red!The shining pistols are uncased,Till the fire in her cheek decreased;More timid than a doe long chased,The contact of the foot I raisedAnd leaning gainst the portal closedYou, he a noble mind disclosed,On chairs in the saloon reposed,To her an elegy composed.And Flinoff, somewhat indisposed,Though some men, evilly disposed,Lenski that eve in thought immersed,In love adventures she was versed,But he who by the Muse was nursedOr, it may be, the bard had passedAlas! for now before her passedWhen Friendship smiled or Love caressed.At home arriving he addressedAt times three words to him addressedAnd when I prayer to Heaven addressedReplaced them in their box, undressedThe style in which my hero dressed;When all around the entrance pressed,What ails thee, dear?I feel depressed.But sits in bed with air depressed,Are not with elegance impressed.The image of her seal impressed.And kindness Tania was impressed,Onegin was the most impressed,And thoughts of Olga first impressedEver by adverse fate oppressed,The strange apartment her oppressed:Know that your sarcasm ill-suppressed,Is it not truth? in tones suppressedBullets are down the barrels pressed,How much is in that word expressed!So she in French herself expressed.Not agony, but death expressed.Wherein the heart its vows expressed,But once more pensive and distressedThen weeping she sank back distressedA deadly pallor, air distressed;Nor enough strength of mind possessedBut tremor still her frame possessed,The maid whose note he still possessedIf the poor maiden could have guessedWithin that secret court discussed,That rascal Lovelace she abused;By friendship how they were abused,No signs of trouble her accused,The hussar Pykhtin was accused.Bouynoff courted. She refused.Nought in the universe refused:And though her soul might be confused,Hewn, hacked, and otherwise ill-used.Some Russian authors he perusedA book at early morn perused.Not that she had his works perused,The room my former master used.In fact, the subject analysed,Even so! His passions soon abated,They sang, whilst negligently seated,He ought to have conciliatedBy daily life deteriorated,He might his motives have narrated,Her inmost soul had penetrated,Nor long his mind was agitatedAwhile this beauty captivated,Were to analysis subjected.Hath she a fitting phrase selected?And life and fate in turn selectedThey long at home have her expectedHis visit she had not awaited,Tattiana with impatience waitedA bastard fame prohibited?Vladimir Lenski visitedHow the young imp on Tania doted!To captivate her how devoted!By Olgas hand distributedAnd every year distributedAll mothers their sweet girls believedOf what he thought and what believed,And she at last hath us deceived;Lenski as a good match received,In vain was youth by us received,Upon those margins she perceivedRetained the image, though short-lived,The neighbourhood fresh sport derived.At an old aunts they had arrivedHarnessed the rapid sledge arrived:A new proprietor arrived,They talked and laughed. The guests arrived.The fatal tubes Lepage contrivedWhich afterwards the muse revived.The conversation was revivedWho had for four long years survivedTurned and replied as it behoved,When but a boy he Olga lovedPerceived that he was still beloved,And ditties of the steppe she loved.He witnessed tenderly and movedAlready by repentance movedOnegin, by first impulse moved,And as a country damsel roved,And these the attentive maid observedStrictly the Carnival observed,And ancient usages observedFor first madame his wants observed,(For which our praise he hath deserved).Her bow was easy, unreserved.And numerous pages had preservedThey in a peaceful life preservedA mien unaltered she preserved,But Eugene was by fate preserved,But proudly in his song preservedThe gifted songster never swerved,And when her violence reviewedThe breath of Spring again renewed,Simple and kindly and unwed,Without the least constraint he bowed.Who to the youthful hostess bowed,In company, or simply bowed,Et cetera_; but nothing showedHe gazed upon the clock which showedA scant attendance Lenski showedTill amid trees a hovel showed,Onegin ne'er as poet showedBut from the interview what flowed?The insensate fire of love still glowedAnd privileges nice allowed,Enraptured was he if allowedHe wrote and spoke, so all allowed,In correspondence been allowed.Passions wild sway I then allowed,And necessary fools allowed.Having a trusty staff bestowed,Journeys and warriors to wed.Please her by their decorum fixed,Titles and ages intermixed.He with his little maiden played,At prisoners base she never played.The deuce with my inside has played.The drama of my youth was played.Meadows and cornfields are displayed,Without amaze or wrath displayed:In Olgas face no life's displayed.Eight rubbers were already played,With bitter tears my mother prayed,Attend in male attire arrayed.And when for Olga nurse arrayedThat we her constantly betrayedThus carelessly I once portrayedChange of position had essayed,There long time sad at heart he stayed:Their giddy sports she ne'er enjoyed.Yet was her inmost soul oerjoyedUpon a soul inert and cloyed?Their noisy laugh her soul annoyed,Of course Tattiana was annoyedAnd is all light within destroyed?What is your name? The boor looked dazed,She on the apparition gazed,Again imagination blazed,And Agathon replied, amazed.And vehemently though amazedWhich Ovid once immortalized,Whom hath thy strain immortalized?With tenderness hath recognizedFor which the poet agonizedIn much his conduct stigmatized;And long perukes hath vanishd.And her upon the threshold laid.He found him on the table laid,And many a day thereafter laidThe powder in the pan is laid,Should go, the market for a maid,And, hanging down her head, the maidAnd crossed with trembling hand the maid.A load of care upon the maid.Beneath her parents eyes the maidAt early morn returns the maidSinging inside her hut the maidShe comprehends. The simple maidMy pretty self-deceiving maidRemained with him the youthful maid.In Olgas album, youthful maid,And for Tattiana, mournful maid,Alone with my Venetian maid,Mine own ideal, the mountain maid,For shame lift up the modest maid.Of a young dark-eyed country maid,Her Martin Zadeka in aid,A due which must to earth be paid.To classicism I've homage paid,Fortune the poet had repaid.Nor frigid adulation paid.That bilberry wine, I'm sore afraid,No time to pick it up! afraid,She, to turn back her eyes afraid,Onegin then approached and said:Gazing into his face, she said:Poor Yorick, mournfully he said,Tattiana doth accept his aid;What they in conversation said?Adieu she to the matron saidAnd the old nurse a brief prayer saidThough scarcely following what was said,With many a vacancy, tis said.In whispers low the neighbours said:But finally she softly said:Vladimir something curtly saidAnd spectacles, his knitting staidSo be it! Just the laws which bidBetter than Chateaubriand didA ball he fell as Tchatzki did.In mist profound all yet is hid.Had rendered him an invalid;Returning, from his ship amidWherefore am I your quarry held?She dreamt she journeyed o'er a fieldAs one who bivouacs afield,Scornfully challenged you afieldAnd thus in season the rich fieldGay flowers and luscious fruit doth yield.What are they? Gladly would I yieldInto thy hands my fate I yield!And can it be? But late a childWhat can be done? She is no child!An ardent heart and yet so mild?And now a fickle flirt and wild,With an imagination wild,Werther, rebellious martyr bold,The wolf upon the highways boldZaretski, once a bully bold,Blank, unapproachable and cold.He laughs, although it aches from cold,But cannot stand the northern cold.His mother from the door doth scold.His housekeeper was wont to scold,And frosty as a Twelfth Night cold.The morn arises foggy, cold,And Limburg cheese alive and oldHe took the room wherein the oldHow empires store of wealth unfold,But that Princess Pauline of old,I also wandered there of old,We never loved in days of old,These evenings as in days of oldAfar, where clothed in green and goldThe medium is required of gold.Is seen next pine-apples of gold.Alas! she is as hard, behold,Before it ran a stream. Behold!Some marriageable maids behold,In one he doth accounts behold,And the suspicious veteran old,Tattiana in traditions oldAn almanac but eight years old.In dreams and what the moon foretoldHad killed me had the like been told.Her Moscow cousin, often toldAnd the young ladies fortunes told,A journey to Moscow! To see the world!The Great WorldHeard he the truth? And thus she couldShe promised Eugene, or she wouldTo Olga frequently he wouldOf friends unceremonious wouldThe Nevas Cleopatra, andExistthat their immortal bandNo one appeared to lend a hand.Than health, so with a trembling handEugene, his pistol yet in handIntoned it, manuscript in hand.With the Well-Wisher in her hand!Her cheek reclines upon her hand.Her foot was in my other hand.Some wretched journal in his hand;A loaded pistol in his hand.A weary season was at handOf Africa, ancestral land,The ruts of his own fatherland.With thoughts of a far distant land,When, where, and in what desert land,Friends of the sons of every land,And in the bathroom did commandIn times gone by thy bare commandSickness more courage doth commandOf a strange night when the moon andThe poet, modest though so grand,Those feet? Alas! on what far strandTo dream upon the sunny strandWith blessings on the ditches andGazing on Lenskis corse did standNovember at the gate did stand.To see you by our fireside stand,None the conviction could withstandImmersed in secret thought I standOh! nurse, nurse, you dont understand!At each extreme one takes his stand,Her tears flow plentifully andTo thy decree my will I bend.To cock the pistol; barrel bendA passionate desire to bendTo Love all ages lowly bend,The thunderbolt on you descend!Wearied of leisure in the end,And had with waddling in the endCharms more enduring in the end.And thou, persistent to the end,Learn Russian, but the Lord defend!But thou, Bordeaux, art like the friendOn thigh or temple, friend on friend.Are admirable, my dear friend,In duel having killed his friendWill you?Agreed.I thank you, friend,And farewell thou, my gloomy friend,And, sobbing at your feet, to blendIf not, the money I will lend.An ear to my confession lend;Their natural attractions lendHis gusts should fertilize, amend,And they the waters recommend.Her caps and night-dresses to mend.Yet I in idleness expendMy days of life approach their end,All to the doctors Eugene send,Enough to see one winters end;Assistance ever will extend,Farther Tattianas walks extendInto the starry night extend.Quick to the country let us wendBut finally in wedlock bind.His mournful heart no peace could find,Where thine equal shall we find?The young proprietor we find;Upon the opening page ye find:Scarcely in Russia can ye findBut what astonished do I findFresh cause of quarrel then I'll find,Infallibly you there will findBut trembles, words he cannot find,The wood she entersbear behind,Of dreary Russia left behind,Your second you have left behind!Perchance to benefit mankind,A fiery and eccentric mind,A duellist of classic mind,Of which the rustling woods remind?Had perished a creative mind,His immorality of mindFrom mere vacuity of mindDelighted, almost sane in mind.But soon their choice seemed to her mindTo Dunia then they whisper: Mind!Become alarmed. So never mind!One image occupied his mind,But one thought only filled his mind,It gradually possessed his mind;Of all the guests within his mind.Onguines pencillings. His mindA pair; though desolate my mind,Zizi, thou mirror of my mind,And the recesses of my mindThat I to you reveal my mind?So uncongenial to my mind,Brought by a pedlar vagabondOf whirligigs were very fond,And stoves of various shapes abound.Funeral amateurs abound!However cherries might abound,What jokes and guesses now abound,Until her heart less high should boundBy barren snow heaped up and bound,Of clamorous geese flew southward bound.These to the coach of state are bound,Twice in the year to fast were bound,The lancer, to his calling bound,A stream, by winters ice unbound,That mind which yearns for space is bound?She wore her corset tightly bound,A beau is for Tattiana found!And if Tattiana mine had foundLo! in my garden was she foundThis monument of thought profoundFrom hence engrossed in thought profound(This by command; for it was found,Examined, mended, newly foundBaggage is heaped up in a mound,Endless conjectures all propoundAnd secretly their views expound.But suddenly all changed around!Imperial portraits hang aroundAnd from the country all aroundAnd devastate the woods around.Selfish nonentities around?The German baker looks aroundThe snows from off the hills aroundA tangled wilderness around.But, when Onguines turn came round,And leave a marsh the fertile groundAnd flooded all the level ground.Of horn in circle call them round.Amid the snowdrifts which surroundRecovering, Tania gazes round;Soon Olgas accents shrill resoundInside clink glasses, cries resoundCongratulations, toasts resound,And by the fiddles rushing soundAttentive to the echoing sound,Nor at the hour of noon with soundThe Russian N with nasal soundMorning awakes with joyous sound;Were stripped with melancholy sound,If he had only known the woundAmid coquettes who pray to GodWill happiness replace. My God!Seven days and nights the travellers plod.Debate commanded ample foodAs to a worthy man and good!The fruits of science, evil, good,Such is the country custom good;Handsome and rich, the neighbourhoodAssemble from the neighbourhood:Which in a hilly neighbourhoodAnd spur my spirits torpid mood!Absorbed in melancholy moodBut such is not for me. I broodTattiana as enchanted stood;Guillot behind a pollard stood;Onegin meditative stood,Sees where a noble mansion stood,Lessons to give he understood!Whose author nature understoodAt this time almost understood.A village and beneath, a wood,Dark was the valley and the woodThe river through the linden wood.And abject slaves who kiss the rod;How I have erred and felt the rod!A worshipper of Kant, a bard,Whither away? Deuce take the bard!Triquet arose, and for the bardHe was no more! The youthful bardHere an old witch with hirsute beard,In loves campaigns Onegin heardBut ye to whom, when friendship heard,Her utterances ever heard,What never was remarked or heardWhen in the grand saloon was heardAnd hark! the clank of spurs is heardTattiana would have gladly heardAnd ought he not to disregardA noted fop who gambled hard.Your conversation cold and hard,The poets madness? for tis hardI wont detain you; but tis hardA young and handsome galliard.What doth she see? Around the boardThe company deep silence guard.Her Grandison was in the Guard,He hies unto the Boulevard,She enters a deserted yardBeneath her lay a strange courtyard,Believed, the peoples wisdom weird,Marmontel also, tome the third;Epistle second, note the third,Whose qualities appeared to affordShe deemed its outline might afford.Lo! my Onegin rural lord!Sighs on another than her lordTo dominate her worthy lord,Command him not to say a wordReform me both in deed and word,Together they returned, nor wordEach gust of temper, silly word,Onegin wasted; on my word,Seems so unnatural and absurd:Of late I have been quite absurd,No more the music thunders loud,With lengthened howl and accent loud,And never hath our language proudOf my light paramour was proud.Even as Moscow, city proud.He enters: in the hall a crowd,Pursuits I followed of the crowd,Or recognized not in the crowd.Amazed at the confusing crowd,Before a cold indifferent crowd,Or he dispersed the motley crowdAnd I, amid the friendly crowd,That girlbut he must dreaming beBut what a nuisance it will be,Will to the old times faithful be.Callous to all he seemed to be.Feelings which long had ceased to beI would desire my bride to beIs still condemned in love to be;Sombre or glad in turn to be,And this fifth canto ought to beAs lordly mansions ought to be,He mused: I will her saviour be!As many entertainments be!Do notyou mightsuspicious be;Is it a dream, and can it be?Long ago. Dream it cannot be!Reader, whoever thou mayst be,Or a swift meteor, may be,(One and the same thing it may be)Or reconciled them, it may be,With worldly honours, it may be,Lenski replied, and soon they beInseparable soon they be.Whilst he belle Nina had the faceTime will the ravages effaceAnd physic bring with mournful face,No, ever to behold your face,I never should have seen your faceWhere the first time I saw your face,But gazes on Onguines faceNo more the village knows his face,Pallid and melancholy face,She who with melancholy faceDepicted on your haughty face!Onguinethe beloved placeBright blazed the window of the place,By belle Tattiana to replace.Her in the pitfalls which we place.To the abandoned dwelling-place.And then monsieur supplied her place;Hard by the window took her place.Why did you visit our poor place?The damsel under escort place.Drank to her health in the first place,To follow you in every place,And after them at headlong paceThrough clouds of dust at postal pace,Warm yourself here a little space!At the front gates, but in brief spaceAccelerates her hasty pace,Hallo, Andriushka, onward race!The boy was wild but full of grace.An ancient lady full of grace.Then handed her the song with grace.The easier tis to gain her grace,He called to mind Tattianas grace,A print without the pictures grace,Ye miracles of courtly grace,O Rus!HoraceAnd who the rent-roll of his raceInheritor of all his race.What acrimonious scorn I traceFor there he left a mournful trace.And my Eugene the path must traceNeer trusted to the treacherous ace.Of the commencement of the piece.Stately, devoid of prejudice,Was ready for self-sacrifice,Behold! than polished floor more niceA blessed bottle, placed in ice,The shining river clothed in ice;Like his, her dress was always nice,But wherefore not?Tis pleasant, nice,The hoar-frost glitters: all rejoiceEuphonious, though I know a spiceIn mother Winters strange caprice.And the extent of his caprice;And shall adopt some new caprice.Upon the table in a triceThe excited hero in a triceBut contrary to her adviceThen theyre so innocent of vice,Two poles together glued by ice,Of Christmas carols, song and dance;And his strange conduct at the danceAgain in her ethereal dance?Before him her wild game of chance.Well, if your pistol ball by chanceMeeting you in times past by chance,In serious mood or dallianceThine eye subdued me with strange glance,His momentary loving glanceGod grant that all who herein glance,A pensive sorrow in her glanceWho by a haughty word or glanceWarmth I imagined in your glance,In groups, official striplings glanceFrequent and rapid doth his glanceFree scope he yields unto his glance,Or will my melancholy glanceUpon the stage his weary glance.The days of love and of romance!And in her hand a French romance.Reviews both dress and countenance,When people with long countenanceSeek the forgotten countenanceHe yawns, averts his countenance,I heard thy voices resonanceA lethargy of sense, a trance,Then would we muse as in a trance,Advance!The heros name too in advance,And views amongst themselves advanceSuch open-hearted innocence.Of her provincial innocenceThen to reward such confidenceTattiana learns the intelligenceHer amorous experienceHe wanders in his indolence;And natural benevolence,And aimless journeys did commenceBut lo! the friends to chat commence.Oh! what had been his eminence!Habit would bring indifference.I yield with a low reverence;To friendship making no pretence,I cannot tell on what pretenceHis energy and impotence.But this adventures consequenceI, after so much eloquence,Not to behave as he did onceOr a good fellow for the nonce,Our idol, Honours motive force,And the newcomers welcome bade.And yet oblivion forbade.Lo! poured in a thin gray cascade,It may be that his martyred shadeThe murmuring brook, the woodland shade,My lyre sings sweeter in the shadeAs in a thickets humble shade,Hid in the gondolas dark shade,Whilst nearer, sunk in deeper shade,Beneath the sheltering oak trees shadeThere, there, beneath the side-scenes shadeIn the Lyceums noiseless shadeWas the first question Olga made,He whom we sing to shall be madeI was for calm existence made,Straight for the entrance then he madeThough the foul vision promise madeThough late, have a beginning made.But sad is the reflection made,But no reply unto her made.For our amusement ever madeNor further comment that night made.Whose heart experience icy madeA certain little escapadeThey shovel silver with a spade,The goddess would a masqueradeChoosing a profitable trade,Were I like you a bard by tradeBut cannot anyhow evadeAnd what will Destiny concede?For ever faithful will abide.The foes with downcast eyes abide.His fate shall presently decide.Doubt and uncertainty decide:But I am now anothers brideLike Leonora did she rideA lean and shaggy nag doth ride,She leisurely away doth ride,He promised here this day to ride,Or monster of Satanic pride,Like Byron, bard of scorn and pride,Amid the soulless sons of prideA bearded postillion astrideUnto the windmill he must rideOn horseback every day they rideMute glances interchanged asideIn consultation stand asideBut now all doubt was set aside,Suddenly to the left hand side,And soon Onguines door besideWith me Caucasian rocks beside!And glittering simpletons beside;A pair of bulletsnought besideAnd hastened to his uncles side,Yes, happythough she at his sideTattiana by a poor aunts side,But grown familiar side by sideFound them in darkness side by side,If thou wert sitting by my side,Jaws are at work. On every sideAte Russian pancakes at Shrovetide,Always together, eventideMeet punishment for him provide.Beneath her roaring opened wide:And death before the husband wideAnd the saloon threw open wide;Onegin oped the cupboards wide.Noblesse and models of the mode,Of a most mournful episode,To foreign lands he would allude,And unto whom we all alludeDeep in the distant province rude,Upon my visions such intrude.Beneath the flag of Quietude,Secure in rural quietudeThen, thenwell, in some solitudeBefore whom once in solitude,Where long time he in solitudeDaily of love in solitude.In worldly din or solitudeSince Eugene in that solitudeFly frequent to my solitude,My soul is filled with gratitude!Measured with great exactitude.Displayed a noble rectitudeMy scholar without aptitudeTo part in amity with thee!From henceforth I confide to thee!Hath fate apportioned unto theeThen, I say truly, none but theeShall I proceed, or homeward flee?Tis hopeless! Homeward doth he fleeIn snow she sinks up to the knee;By Providences dark decree!This lot in life with stern decree?Tender and elevated, free?When shall I wing my passage freeFrom such digressions wholly free.Impressed him in the least degree,Perchance he will to all the three.Yet sometimes pages two or threeHis valet brings him letters three.Tome of Malvina, and but threeKnew not an iamb from a choree,Tattiana! sweet Tattiana, see!The poets hour hath soundedSee!The house and garden I would see.And a guitar produced we see,Behind the mill. Meantime ye seeGallop, mazurka, waltzingsee!Virgins miraculous I see,Know that thy face that day I see.The giddy world at last shall see.Whither shall he go first? Hell see,Scarce credits what his eyes can see.He usually was glad to seeOlinka is her junior, see.The break of day she doth not see,The letter is the thing, you see,A mansionby the window, see!Childe Harold, quaker, devotee,Such was Onguines sainted life,To move in fashionable life,He in the early years of lifeWho floats contentedly through life,Rural LifeCommence a new career in lifeWhilst the fond parents, friends thro life,And like his shadow dogged his life,In many things had changed his lifeHe knew not how to spend his life.Should be respected throughout lifeThe die is cast! Thine is my life!And leads a solitary life?And rest from bygone days of strife.So be it! But internal strifeIn aimless ease and far from strife,Of error and the passions strife.The Muse abandoned, taen a wife,By every proper-minded wife,Dreamed in the future man and wife.Wherein the miserable wifeOr better,like a faithful wife.By children and by faithful wifeThat I am rich, a princes wife?Proud of his dinners and his wife!Without profession, business, wife,You choose.But who is she?My wife.Behold Sabouroff, whom the ageBut at a later, sterile age,In boston and the game of age,And testy gamesters do engageAnd reached, with nought his mind to engage,Or in a squabble to engage,Sterner solicitudes engage,Another could her heart engage,A visionary personageAs once, to fill the rapid pageSaint Priest, who every albums pageOr faults of grammar on its pageWith humble prose I'll fill my pageAs storms which in chill autumn rageThus having braved Apollos rageRemains on earth the unseemly rage,As the reflection of his age,The twenty-sixth year of his age,Whilst struggling for the heritage.Another could her woe assuageBoth aunts looked knowing as a judge,Each gave Tattianas arm a nudgeFor two whole days it seemed a changeOur godlike tongue she could exchangeThe cool dark oaken grove to range,But sweeter still it is to arrangeFor savage speech, uncouth and strange,Placed at the customary range;No one the contrary will urge,Again a century should scourgeUnto his own Tattiana he,The traveller, bird of passage he,That girl whom once on a time heFor empty sound the rascal swore heA paragon of virtue he!Sweeter it is, my friends, if heAll are amazed; but Lenski heThree mortal hours per diem heTania well nigh expired when heAnd by a sweet delusion heOr Melmoth, gloomy wanderer he,Voices and hands applaud, and sheAnd in her native language sheAnd a half rubles down gave she;Nor on the letter yet hath sheOh! I remember, where is he?She oped her eyes and cried: tis he!And cried within myself: tis he!And disappear in space; then sheShe sits alonetis ever _she!_On such a day. O Heavens, tis she!And an encouragement did breatheTo Lucifer the cock must breatheThey first of all my brow did wreatheNo fond illusions live to soothe,A dying man with art to soothe,Men love no more, as only theOn Sundays by yon window he,Dressed like a London dandy heBefore you agonized to dieAnd silently I here must dieThe family of children hie.Upon the earth a mist did lieWhen deaf and silent he doth lieWherein my poor old nurse doth lieThere the tired ploughman loves to lie,Therell be a fight. I do not lie._Reveillez-vouz, belle endormie_.Contemplate her sad reverie.Of youthful impulse, reverie,Dark, unavailing reverie,Aroused in him sweet reverie.Unknown to all, without a tie,The bridge and alley to the lake,The fever of the blood to slakeHer promptings unto law did make,I the same admonition make.He deemed his friends but longed to makeAcquaintance instantly to make.Een as the presence of a snake,Through park and meadow, wood and brake,Great sacrifices for his sake!For law I _far niente_ takeMy sportive Muse I used to takeAnd every morning I awakeTo burn, yet reason keep awakeOr any trifle else ye likePedantic although scholar like,Of the horizon she is like!The post hath kept him, it is like.By computation) it is likeOnegin waits on us, tis like.The comrade of your youth should strike,Tis time to get up! Seven doth strike.Our roads transformed the eye will strike;Then suddenly discharge a jokeA bogy conjured up in joke,And barely visible the smokeHow artless was the note which spokeHe bowed to her nor silence broke,And Lenski followeda light brokeThe ladies laughter to provoke.Tattiana terrified awoke.By Tania, smoothing his peruke,But it grew late; cold blew the gale;Already sings the nightingale.Nor the frost particles inhaleBut now in her effulgence paleShe, than the morning moon more pale,How oft beneath the moonbeams paleOnguines cheek grew ashy pale,She trembled and grew deadly pale.Entranced me by some mystic tale.Thus we began our little taleThen it may be, O flattering tale,Thus in a style _obscure_ and _stale_,I tried when I began this tale,Its waters to the neighbouring vale.I know theres none more amiable.Fashion is there immutable,Honour and pride inflexible.Ahem! Ahem! My reader noble,Permit me; is it worth the troubleEre crimson stains their hands defile,Regained authority awhile,Singing in chorus all the while.Thus the time passes and meanwhileTo see aughtnever mind meanwhile)The moment for revenge, meanwhile,Because I should be sure, meanwhile,Though we, of Hymen foes, meanwhile,Quite inadvertently meanwhile;Espying, Eugene with a smileAs rosy lips without a smile,They crack a feeble joke and smileThat afterwards with evil smileTo mark with a contemptuous smile.Which your true friend with a sweet smileCannot they amicably smileTwas built, the venerable pile,Swearing how Lenski he would rile,Scarce mindful of their love and guile.They disappeared by stealth and guile,But he desired not to beguileShall my declining years beguile;The Russian language I deem vileAlso the works of Fontenelle,Long listen, comprehend the wholeNasce una gente a cui l morir non duole.About the rain and flax and cattle.In their sterility of prattle,Preserves and an eternal prattleQuestions and news and tittle-tattle,I owe the censorship a little.But will not modify a tittleThe crystals of her vestibuleThough correspondence as a ruleCareless of every social rule,He read the unbelieving Bayle,He wrote (tis the romantic style,Her toilettes antiquated style,Avenge himself in proper style.A novel in Lafontaines style,To sketch ye in Albanos style.In solid, unpretentious style,And a romance in ancient styleThe door flew openOlga came,Hateful the hollow world became,Tattiana faltered, and becameNor by her beauty she becameBecause a member I became.From Gottingen inspired he came,And straight returning whence he came,And is it long since back he came?Will he pursue?But no one came.Lo! from the nearest barrack came,But when the winter season cameTattiana waits. No answer came!Athwart the snow four paces cameHer shoulderOlga swiftly cameBut turn we once more to our dame.Wheneer a brilliant courtly dameAnd comfort of each country dame,The thirst of knowledge and of fame,Time was the flattering voice of fame,In hopes of everlasting fameAnd at the altar of their fameWill be ascribed by treacherous FameStrange unto her each childish game,He takes his seat, concludes his game,Horror of sinfulness and shame,Trembles at artificial shame.By recklessness amuse or shameBelieve me, of my present shameThat vicious set whom I dont blameHe kindled his poetic flame.Scarlet as burnt by inward flame.By loves inevitable flame.And gazed around with eyes of flame;Is it that ardent souls of flameWho knows? with loves consuming flameMore blooming than the Boreal flameBut fashionable hatreds flameAnd in addition youth is flameWe are the first who such a nameYou never would have heard the name,And so Tattiana was her name,Vladimir Lenski was his name,A finished madrigal would frameShe waits, on fire her trembling frameHer friend Monsieur Finemouche the same,Pray is it he? It is the same.Another passed; twas just the same.Her wolf-dog and her husband tame;The old Derjavine noticed me,His character attracted me.And fled afarshe followed me.Of many an economic scheme;And my romances open themeThe olden time shall be my theme.And then the stanzas of my themeWho reads his visionary themeOf touching lightly every theme.He with an innocence extremeDescends the bank with care extreme,Who welcome guests with zeal extreme,My uncles goodness is extreme,And, inspiration firing me,Until the sleepless Brguet chimeTransported to our Russian clime.And visit many a foreign clime,On sunny days the glistening rime,Destroyed the blossom of his prime.His footing on the treacherous rimeSledging, the snows, which at the timeShe is an angel! We sometimeFor a protracted space of time.And thus he spent eight years of time,Her figure perfect grows with time!Announcing to him dinner-time.Hurrah! it long ago was time!It now to investigate is time,How in the country pass this time?And may fall headlong any time.You will not all abandon me.Despair and anger seize on me,Across her youth a shade had come,Tiresome unto her hath becomeAll dark and silent hath become;Callous to all on earth becomeAnd shorter had the days become.Straight from their province had he come?I am in love, my hour hath come!Though to the Academy I comeWhen will my hour of freedom come!In winter time would often come.Nor shall the caterpillar comeAt eventide would hither come,He wakesthey with a letter comeTriumphant with the answer come.To take a hand at whist oft come:His name: the tenderness of homeYes! for our unpretending home,As in her heart the thought sank home,Long, long the hour had past when homeNo longer through her former home;Time was, two maidens from their homeThe Princess N. will be at homeHomeward returning, he at homeTranquilly goes to sleep at home,The bard his answer waits at home,With better half as cumbersome;That first the Muse appeared to me.An album, fly-leaf of the tome,Ah! come, Tattiana, come to me!Mournful is thine approach to me,But Iwhat is all this to me?What is thy cleverness to me?But Lord! from friends deliver me!Ah! nurse, a favour do for me!Howl like a dolt: tis meant for me!Open the windowsit by me.In the lone garden and the lane?Oft staring through the window paneA shape half cat and half a crane.Undeviating and insaneOf the domains of the side-scene.Struck Lenski deadacross the sceneBut shall depict the touching scenePictures of the amusing scene,Doth seem to him the festal scene.The village wherein yawned EugeneThe strife grew furious and EugeneSuch were the musings of Eugene.Adorned the apartment of Eugene,Sincerely loving him, EugeneMy second! cried in turn Eugene,All this was novel to Eugene.He was in error; for EugeneAnd is it, meditates Eugene.Who may he be? Is it Eugene?She rosedeparted. But EugeneAnd so departed. But Eugene,A true Childe Harold my EugeneBetween myself and my Eugene,As a poetic life serene,And irrigate them with champagne;Are turned upon her. All combineHe smiles, in laughter all combine;Yet neither Virgil nor RacineDeparted Lenski here to dineAnd chattering loud sit down to dine.Behold the dames who once were fineA single being: twas in fineThe sneers of critics superfine;Admired his judgment, which was fine,Clarissa, Julia, Delphine,And make a dark existence shineThe lamps illuminating shine;He could in disputation shineTattiana, saucy Olga thine?Tis Heavens will and I am thine.Diminishes as years decline.Do all things which to mirth incline.The kennel or a kindred line,Akulka who was once Celine,Hath pictured in his gorgeous lineBaptized Prascovia Pauline,Corset and album and Pauline,With many a snare their pathway line!Condemn not weak Tattiana mine;He was no fool, and Eugene mine,A new Kaverine Eugene mine,But, as I said, Zaretski mineNo other than Onegin mine.Well known unto Onegin mine.Bouynoff, wrathful cousin mine,In your young days and also mine),In one great shout: shes mine! shes mine!Where art thou? Come! pretensions minePlease follow this way, lady mine,Of my impassioned heroine.Dreaming herself the heroineNever upon my heroineA tombstone, Aphrodites shrine,The choicest flowers of French cuisine,Is it for long?Ma chre cousine!Lest the world or her lord divineBefore the dregs they shall divineAnother bard with art divineLong tortured by his lay divine,I love them, O my dear Elvine,About the crop of hay, the wine,Give me just half a glass of wineOf the cup brimming o'er with wineWith loud explosion, the bright wineOur dear old aunt, Princess Helne,The sum of my existence goneAll to the grand saloon are goneTo pass the night at home hath gone.Can she have been a moment goneThe ball in all its splendour shone.Frosty the night; the heavens shone;Whilst cheerily the embers shone,That hero, though his merit shone,Nurse, leave me. I would be alone.Having for moneys sake aloneTranquil repose. Eugene aloneCertainly not Eugene aloneWhen, sitting by his fire aloneTwas these he read and these aloneTo sigh and meditate alone:Can hearty welcome give alone.In horror for itself alone,Upon her brow sits wrath aloneOn the steppes of Moldavia lone,The rivers bank. Tattiana loneUndoubtedly, disdain aloneMaid whom my heart desires alone,Good-night. Behold! she is alone!Waiting his cominghis alone!Moina recalls for this aloneDies suddenly: of heirs aloneAnd in the frosty night aloneThat mediocrity aloneForgotten in the village lone,Where, where, the trace of tears? None, none!Though around honoured Priams throneMine! cried Eugene with savage tone.Said something in an undertoneShe murmurs in an undertoneThus haughty, careless in her tone?That all may hear his voices tone.That like a friendly voice its toneBut that the eyes of every oneLo! on the sleeping river borne,No answer all that day was borne.A constant harping on one tune,The nightingale trills forth her tune;Of fashionable dames the foe,The mystic monogram, O. E.With Martin Zadeka. In woeThe aged woman in her woe:Dreaming perchance in weal or woeOr quietly partake our woe.Een hopeless egoisms dark shape.Ah! long the world hath missed thy shape!With taffety instead of crape.Could in romantic mantle drapeHis book-shelf instantly doth drapeTo whisper comfort, love and hope?Tis dreadfulye agree, I hopeHad bid her sigh for without hopeIn country solitude you mope,Tis said you are a misanthrope,For a fictitious misanthrope,A dangerous, gloomy misanthrope,On horseback gallop o'er the steppe!His inner consciousness laid bare,Through aspens, limes and birches bare,Was he in health and void of care?I am acquainted with fresh care,Tattianas beauty, pale with care,Albums magnificent which scareGazed on him, called him. Useless care!Lenski at intervals would dare,To cope with Ay no more I dare,The vile seducer shall not dareThough I confess I hardly dareO Men, how very like ye areOr vainly mid luxurious fareWith Ozeroff was wont to shareAnd impiously should declare,You with stern countenance declareI cannot help it I declare,None could her beautiful declare,Doth his brow wretchedness declareThe riot of the world and glareThe crash of music, candles glareAnd the more surely we ensnareWhat pleasures Hymen would prepareBreakfast the busy cooks prepare,But, O ye tomes without compare,Here I remark all poets areI ask, all ye who poets are,Moscows young Graces at her stare,Tattianas love was quite sincere,Now I am fit for nothing here.Which in the elevated sphereThe moon in the blue atmosphere.Enjoyeth peaceful slumber here_.Abandon hope for ever here!Hes here! Eugene is here!(I speak not of our poems here),And Eugene soon discovered thereOr suffering pride? Why is he there?With all their progeny were there,Alone the princess sitteth there,I promised!Did I so?Well, there!Tattiana gently led them there.The young Simeonova too thereIt may be ye were born, or thereAnd yet the citys flower was there,The left? Why, what on earth is there?And lo! he is already there!Was born beside the Neva, whereHe bends his course to Talons, whereFaces which we meet everywhereAnd be not in advance severe.I yield the fruit of work severe.Just as he entered. How severe!If the choice in my power were,And dark and drear the evenings were,As if impossible it wereStill sovereigns of his spirit were,Olga with trepidation dire.Would haste in agitation direOblivion of life's tempest dire,And spouted it with lyric fireNor sparkled with poetic fire,Authors replete with sacred fireOr bosom full of languid fire,The proud ones are not worth the fireFor our Automedons are fireStood as if struck by lightning fire.Our misanthrope was full of ire,Their privileged allurements fireWith our Onegin doth aspireFoeman or friend, I do aspireYet still apparently aspireAnd that no longer could inspire.He deemed his coming would inspireNor wit, nor did the same inspireLike D when dinner doth inspire.Whose tones Apollos sons inspire,Raged round him and of balked desire!To mutter her concealed desireA hidden train of wild desire.All that perfection could desire;All that a poet could desire,He felt the laudable desireThis world. I do not praise desire,So ardently did I desireWhich glowed with virginal desire.But Lenski, having no desireAdieu! whateer thou didst desireAt a great feast against desire,Slowly exhausted by desire,His constant soul could ever tire,And our swift troikas never tire;The wit of others to acquire.Now buffoon, glutton, and a bore.Within his mind Tattiana bore,And brooding o'er the ills he bore,Opened with care, and entering boreWith thee I conversed when I boreWithin my memory I boreTattiana, Russian to the core,Or, as it were, the Freischutz scoreThe Russian winter did adoreWhom doth thy plaintive Muse adore?Whom thirty centuries adore.And the young girl appeared beforeHe was deceived. Just as beforeHe read as vainly as before,My spirit with such pangs before.Thoult suffer, dearest, but before,They stir the heart as heretofore.How oft to the Crimean shoreTo help her to the other shoreOf the imperial Nevas shore.The captives of the Salguirs shore.Or by the oceans rocky shore.Tis time to quit this weary shoreAnd thy protection I implore.Society renounced once more.With it may be a couple more;With affectation,nothing more.Where Nereids murmur evermore,As if against obstruction soreA gust of passion never toreAway her golden earrings tore;Endowing us from out her storeAs bees who leave their dainty storeAnd homeward like an arrow tore.Now the sweet little shoes she wore,Bouynoff too, my cousin, woreRogue and extortioner of yore,Who would have thought it? As of yore!But which, my dear?In days of yoreAs thou, great Homer, didst of yore,A fragile bridge and insecure,For who imposture can endure,Hath gradually learnt to endure;But competition I abjureBut deeming all this nonsense pure,Then my companions young with pleasureIn history he took no pleasure,Found out the secret how at pleasureYet still of anecdotes a treasureFor longfor ever. To be sureSit down. How funny, to be sure!And then she soon twixt work and leisureIn the unfettered hours of leisureHe will delight you, I am sure,That my dishonour would ensureSerious endeavours to assureHappy who timely grew mature,And after Albions proud lyreFor ever with thy tattling lyre,Ye need dissimulation baseFelled a calumniator base!For my wild garden and bookcase,That a friends arm in every caseStill the loud stamping doth not cease,Who tyrannizes us with ease,The journey in a sledge doth please,Can I inspect the mansion, please?With childlike lisp will lie to please.Possession hath no power to please,Napoleon tarried till it pleaseO epic Muse, my powers increaseTo cool the cutlets seething grease,Of modern Russians the disease.A very troublesome disease,If seriously he hath disease;Though he surveyed her at his ease,Glides with a more luxurious ease;But Tanias heart is not at ease,In motley and amusing chase.The curs away to kennel chase,Her shaggy myrmidon in chase.Monsieur clean out of doors they chase.Not even a poetic phrase,I say without poetic phrase,Moscow! How much is in the phraseHandbook of fashionable phraseAddress to you one single phraseTo russify the foreign phraseWho every gesture, every phraseEugene would speak regarding these.It matters not. Hope een to theseFrom careless stanzas such as these,She would pronounce _ la Franaise_;She mourned and to the moon would raiseAnd in her languid bosom raiseOf passion they so often raise.To God eternal hymns of praise.As cyphers others to appraise,Away! and cease to ring their praiseHow sweet a dream your memories raise!And where the billows hoarsely raiseThe curtain now they slowly raise.Because he could not gourmandiseThey growl a bitthey scandaliseCrushing and a confusing noise;But at her shriek ran forth with noiseTired by the balls incessant noise,Engrave the ice with strident noise.Could in a humble sphere despise,Miraculously fair arise,Where melancholy rocks ariseThose hellish phantoms. Peals ariseOf the night sentinels ariseAnd would by candlelight arise.Thus thou, Yazykoff, dost ariseWhen Eugene like a ghost did riseA blood-bespattered shade would rise,In column blue the smoke doth rise;Oft upon friendly lips doth rise:Yet sometimes banished hopes will riseThe Lrinas were since sunriseLate in the afternoon to rise,The shopman and the pedlar riseThe crowd doth head and shoulders riseHe has returned, say in what guise?Olga the tea must superviseHe is a charming youth and wise.Olga began to long likewiseIs he the same or grown more wise?The chief of the Chaldean wise,Manforty years long in this wiseBut now a question in this wiseWith his exasperated sense,May be the empire of the sense,He well-nigh lost the use of sense,Pervaded with much common sense.And I admired their common senseReduced with effort unto sense,Though now my love might be intense,Inspired but weariness intense;We hear with interest intensePhials of crystal scents enclose.Ladies in crowds around her close,A curious interest discloseMalignant fury they disclose,The windows whitened, shutters closeCommand me, darling, what you chooseBut nowhere can she find repose,Do agitate his late repose.Deprive our schoolgirls of repose,When, wise at length, we seek reposeAnd where at last his bones reposeBut better loved the soft reposeHer smile and maidenly repose,Already crisp hoar frosts imposeYears to light rhyme themselves oppose,He enters. High the cork aroseAnd the conviction soon arose,Furious he from the table rose;Of thankless friends the circle rose,(Readers expect the rhyme of _rose_,Years have inclined me to stern prose,As many dinners I rehearse,Barking, songs, whistling, laughter coarse,Too much I'm given to intersperse,They met. Earth, water, prose and verse,And also that my feeble verseAlthough we read him heaps of verse.Or ice and flame, are not diverseRound which revolves the universe.That for that matter in my verseWithin his sledge the stiffened corse,The speech of man and tramp of horse.Detecting him the passing horseLoud paws the earth each panting horse,Most usually a Cossack horseA fiery, yet well-broken horse,Departed, ordered out his horseIn age the memory gets worse,At womankind he growled a curse,Existence would not make a curse,How dull you are this morning, nurse!All visited him at first, of course;A dinner, whimsical each course,Of friends the grateful intercourseSnorts, and his rider bends his courseOh, many a year hath run its courseI lift a warning voice becauseI once forgot for your sweet causeThe thirst for fame and mans applause,The foaming Lenski would refuse,Now I am ready to refuse.Whose memory doth not refuseBut look youah! do not refuse.With sudden flush her cheeks suffuse,Poetic transport did infuse,Ideas, desires and woes confuseThe monsters of the British MuseAdmirer of the peaceful Muse,A mournful temper on his Muse.But I the products of my Muse,Now for the first time I my MuseIncited by his stormy MuseBut I must now employ my MuseYe mothers also, caution use,One instrument for his own useNow, as in a deserted house,Then became busy with the house,What can be drearier than the house,Received him freely at her house,Besides the hobbies of a spouseNight separated from her spouse,Deplores a most unworthy spouseSo hearken, every worthy spouse,I would your vigilance arouse,The drum already doth arouse.To my old nurse alone peruse,But Olga would not such peruse.Her steppe-like beauties I peruseBut what results? His eyes peruseConfess, O ye who this peruse,They long ago had held debate.They would not solemnly debateMy famous portrait indicateBut this amusement delicateI marriednow, I supplicateIndifferent and sedate,The Lovelaces are out of date,All this I know is out of date,That is, he could elucidateTold me to ask you. Ere that dateHe was most gay. The happy dateThe story of thy life and fate.Indifferent was her future fate.On Lenskis matrimonial fateAfar is borne by cruel fate,She muses: What was Olgas fate?And mourned him still. Why mourn his fate?Another time, so willed it Fate,Condemned to exile dire by fate,Will not, preserved by kindly Fate,The peasant blessed his happy fate.The servants used to congregateTend not my heart to mitigate,The hostess doth interrogate:He nears a spacious mansions gate,Both were expectant of the hateYour fashionable world I hate,By the coarse wit of worldly hate;With her they did associate,Both were of passion satiateExcruciate the heart and late(Like other things I could relate)Sometime collected, shall relateBut if the truth I must relate,But tell me, nurse, can you relateHe hath neglected us of late.The time for mystic strolls which lateDesirous to annihilateIn charming fashion mutilate?How soon he learnt to titillateBut round the hostess scintillateThat year the autumn season lateTwo hearts perchance were desolateBut now my mind is desolate,Longtime was her heart desolateShall surely, be it soon or late,A mild quotation to translate,A promenade in twilight lateAnd you, O maids immaculate,Squeeze tiny hands and osculate;But I came not to adulate:The world enough. CongratulateAnd jests doth recapitulate.Reserved, but not inanimate,Conscious of death approximate,Just at the hour we designateAnd, joy of souls effeminate,By many a lamp illuminate,Sweet to behold him obstinate,Of life or death predestinate.I had found my predestinate,And stupid censors passionate;Perchance one more affectionate.He marmot-like did hibernate,Must be pronounced unfortunateBut if my lot unfortunateAnd grasp a stirrup fortunateBy time (who can anticipate?)Tis fearful to anticipateFor evermore is separate.The Lrinas would celebrate,To whom your hearts were consecrate,To whom we used to consecrateThat chosen heroes consecrate,Her manners were deliberate,Spoiled children most degenerateBut merely to exasperate;You in the least commiserateOr Idol mio, and in the grateHis double sashes and his grate,If but to lighten Times dull rate,When o'er a glass with friends we prateIf cleverly or not I prate.Shifts, tacks about, until they prateThe fatal bullet penetrate,Where turmoil cannot penetrate,By an _obroks_ indulgent rate:To-day, my friends, at any rate,Your frankness I shall compensateWith jealous fire resuscitate,On thee I used to meditate!Whom vice, if named, doth agitatePerchance some heart twill agitate,The matter did not agitate,Eternally to imitateThe secrets of the marriage stateBy rank as settled by the State.The sorrows of a single state.These take their seats; the coach of stateI am not strong enough to state;Tis sweet the foe to aggravateMy heart of old would captivate.My soul I cannot renovateIn bud of promise incomplete,The weary way still incomplete,Around my stanzas incompleteWrapt in oblivion complete,Without them Eugene is complete;Encountered punishment complete,Who the romance do not complete,With unanimity complete,Me?Yes! It is Tattianas fteNor yet her lip compressed did bite.The fervid poet would recite,When poets lachrymose reciteWas certainly not eruditeGrew like a lily pure and white,Though dazzling its effulgence white,A bottle of a vintage whiteWinter resigned her empire white,Beneath the table-cloth of white,Its ebullition foaming whiteAll so distinct, and all so white!Nor sudden turned she red or white,Their insolence and waistcoats whiteHer house he enters, ghastly white,The converse of the world polite,Highways all Russia will uniteHappy who thereto can uniteThe girl in marriage they unite.Nor even tears afford respite,I have endured without respite.Trembles upon my lips from spite,A philosophic anchorite:She wanders aimless as a sprite,Who thrives this moment as I write,But I must add to what I writeAnd madrigals I'm asked to write!Beyond this may attempt to write_.Serve who could neither read nor write.I would, my friends, inscriptions write,And irritates the appetite.At last is shrunk and withered quite?By Olga stood, dejected quiteA Russian household simple quite,Affection how did you requite?Whilst Eugene condescending quite,For I myself was thirteen quite;And town and friends forgotten quite.Nor died nor lost his senses quite.The vestibule finds empty quiteLenski his comrade did invite.Fond declarations they inviteOn innocent delights I dote,I on my chosen hero dote;On balls I madly used to dote,Twas then in valleys lone, remote,With vale finish off a note;Or the delivery of a note.Interrogation to denote.She heard of servant-maids the note,Your innocent and charming noteA dagger, asterisk, or noteTo purest love he tuned his noteIn spring-time, heard the cygnets noteThe letter which Tattiana wrote.When in simplicity ye wroteAnd an elegiac poem wrote.But Lenski madrigals ne'er wroteSo let us to the ball-room haste,And the attendants called in haste.His chair, plate, knife and fork in haste;Beyond the city-barriers haste.We must admit but little tasteAll which in Paris eager taste,More satisfaction to her taste.And she despite herself would wasteAnd ease and fashionable waste,And education runs to waste,This anchorite amid his wastePrincesse, mon ange!Pachette!Subscribed, _toujours vous, Annette;_With this unpleasant _tte--tte_,And the cast-iron statuetteWould lose his slippers or gazette.Device of rural minds acute!)In the beginning, cold and mute,From whose analysis minuteWhilst homeward by the nearest routeMy countrys honour and reputeNone could a trace of that impute,Her all in all did constitute;A wild enthusiastic tongue,From her my lips shall learn the tongueDid they not all the Russian tonguePoltroons and men of slanderous tongue,Onegin knew enough, the rogueLatin is just now not in vogue,Her locks were of a golden hue,Her eyes were of cerulean blue,Like smoke athwart the heaven blue;The heavens shone in deeper blue,He racked his brains to find its clueAlas! my friend, no revenue!His vanity first let us piqueThou also, my ideal true,Ah! it may be, affection trueTis time to marry her, tis true,No noveltyis it not true?Then, in the country, ist not true?I did not please you. Why pursueFor ever your Tattiana leave.Without the faintest trace to leaveAnd all without her husbands leave.But now our hero we must leaveMy mournful fate in verse to weave,Into delicious bondage gaveAntiquity no pleasure gave,But promise of our meeting gave,Was it not so?for thee I gave,And, by the light the moonbeams gave,A first success light pinions gave,Alarm the winter journey gave.The prejudices all men have,At his pale brow a shot to have,As thoughts which gentle maidens have,Tell me at once what wilt thou have?Her shoulders, breast and face to laveVladimir, hourly more a slaveHe sang of loveto love a slave.To shallow sentiment a slave!A prudent man like you and braveThe fatal secrets of the grave,And blest me, sinking to the grave.My guardian angel to the grave.For him an honourable grave,Lament, embrace upon that grave.But where Melpomene doth raveThe moderns of the ancients raveThe Lord deliver her and save!And thy inebriating waveAnd her bespangled robe doth waveThus to assassinate the eve?But my Onegin the whole eveTo mention the foregoing eve,Not the young timid maid, believe,To standards in which we believe?These are your relatives, believe:Beside his Olga doth he grieve,Just at a moment which I grieveWhen angry beat her maids, I grieve,A timid, shrinking love to grieve.He called upon me Christmas EveShrill sang the _samovar_ at eve,To jest as he had done last eve,I love youto what end deceive?That we by cant ourselves deceive,Where is he who doth not deceive?And that too often we receiveWhat I by relatives conceive?Not at all.That I cant conceive!His son is married, just conceive!In clouds of steam above perceive.To write in cantos twenty-five.To me he would his Olga give,Of comme il faut. Shishkff, forgive!Time without me will lessons give,But I await thee: scarce aliveThe most industrious man aliveUs from the world wherein we live.Would whisper: shall I so long live?So meantime let him joyous liveDepart in peace and friendly live?And our successors soon shall driveMutual destruction to contrive.And yet he in your cause would striveWhen that time comes, a poem I'll striveWhat boots it with the age to strive?And loves you asa relative!Applause, the peoples donative.I cant translate the adjective.There our Katnine did reviveMy heart with but one look revive;Along the hall, and high aboveThat guests approach: and when aboveThe moon, the lamp of heaven above,None, be my witness Heaven above!By the decree of Mighty Jove,And enmity and hope and loveAgain the plague of boyhoodlove?O Spring, thou chosen time of love!Farewell! thou golden days of love!The all-entrancing joys of loveTo swagger as the art of love,And what resulted? Drunk with love,Extendedhaunt which Dryads love.By absence who hath chilled his love,I love you with a brothers love,With tears which secret sufferers loveThe malady of hopeless loveIdeas and time ne'er backward move;My spirit and my blood doth move,Whom jealous transport cannot move,Maidens before her meekly moveThus mused a madcap young, who droveTwas then he loved the tangled groveA thick immense neglected groveAround the meadow and the grove.And in the Summer Garden rove.Gently for pranks he would reproveIf Olga smilingly approve,Time was when cold seduction stroveYoung ladies, if ye ever stroveVexation? Vanity? or stroveThe blood boiled and the passions strove.At morn, hand clasped in hand, they roveLo! the prim cat upon the stoveDesire to rule ye may observePolite demeanour to preserve,To strike imagination serve.Young ladies in a vasty curve,Him who inspired both love and awe,With footsteps tremulous with aweStriking the intellect with aweAnd supper. In the country weWhen the hour came to bid good-byeNow we must separate. Good-bye!To bid the gentlefolk good-bye.Ye peaceful valleys all, good-bye!His hand, and fell. His clouded eyeTo arm the tongue and een the eye,Walking? The landscape tires the eyeAnd viewed the door with cunning eye.Upon your daughters keep an eye,And reads with rapid eager eyeTo raise his pistol to his eye,Tattiana gazed with curious eyeI've scanned it with a jealous eye,And Lenski, closing his left eye,The verst posts catch the vacant eyeThe cynosure of every eye.But ye, O happy husbands, yeOnegin whither gallops? YeWhose brain no fond illusions daze,On iron bridges we shall gazeOn everything around her gaze,Looks upon all with absent gazeAnd long her eyes as through a hazeExtinguished ashes do not blazeNo, never in the early blazeOn pit, stalls, boxes, brightly blaze,But, cried Zaretski in amaze,Do ye of spring the blossoms graze?Madman, wilt thou from memory razeStill they blow noses, cough, and sneeze,Let not the poets spirit freeze,Him a disquietude did seize,A hand of ice appeared to seizeNor the first snow of winter seizeThe hero we immortalize.Who now could fail to recognizeLoves pangs Tattiana agonize.Gifts such as these alone could prize,Having lost all in life we prize.The calm existence which I prizeA bristly bear of monstrous size!They made him feel inclined to doze;Aside she casts her veil of gauzeAnd who is not a tiresome thief?And honestly tis my beliefIs ever ready with relief,This great discovery reliefHabit alleviates the griefWho in the agony of griefTo whom are our misfortunes griefWith deeper woe than others grief.Our union would produce but grief.DmitrieffWho arrived lately from Tamboff,Loud snores the cumbrous PoustiakoffGvozdine, Bouynoff, PtushkoffThe family of Kharlikoff,But stop! I will present thee, ifTo write of any other elfThan ones own fascinating self.Then dressed himself...Stood as estranged from all aloof,Even beneath her parents roofCame with Monsieur Triquet, a prig,In spectacles and chestnut wig.The language of her girlish pleadingPage after page continued reading,However, Tanias letter reading,But she, her sister never heeding,Istomina the nimbly-bounding;Forth from the crowd of nymphs surroundingEspy him approaching,Oh! how our years are vanishing!Farthingales, patches, were the thing,Onguines letter!Ah! the thing!I guard it as a holy thing,I have it. Lo! the very thing!Basins and jugswell! everythingAlso one Vizemski, remarkingAnd an old gent the poet markingShone pungent Satires dauntless king,As butterflies to blossoms cling.But why are your cheeks whitening?I'm o'er it ever pondering.The world is ever altering!Ceased for a space all chattering.Plates, knives and forks are clatteringOr, parable more flattering,Amidst successes flatteringTo our Tattiana conquering,Upon the meadows showering,Some other long-departed Spring,Ye golden days of my young spring?Free, in the blossom of his spring,In life domestic see a stringOf Volga fishermen doth sing,That I forget not whom I sing.Behold! orthography despising,Rousseau, I would remark in passing,Eloquent raver all-surpassing,At last my father gave his blessing,Her suit before my parents pressing:Then the old dames in chorus sing,Attentive to the hearts first beating,Follow up lovea secret meetingTo happiness contributing.Wafted upon poetic wing,The tiresome man, her value knowing,Of pictures painful harrowing,Yet curses on his fate bestowing,And Kniajnine, apt at copying.Metreless verses recognizingExistence calmly sped along,Who following Petrarch move alongA riding whip. She strolls along.The days which to your youth belong?But send your grandson before long.Glittered in a perspective long,Visions, now sad, now grateful, longShe gazeda cue, forgotten long,And grant success to labour long;He thought to write, but labour longThe lively trash of stories longWeeping they loosed my tresses longThe nightingale there all night long,_The date, his fleeting years how longTerpsichore alone amongAnd thus he never fell amongAnd wild festivities amongAnd oft at eventide a throngHe quits the fashionable throngTo whom amongst the jealous throngNothing, good nurse, theres nothing wrong,With little knowledge and that wrongRepose in peace, thou child of song_.She brought with her the gift of song.With dance and with song.And led me off to church with song.Either with him or thee in song,Springs paramour, pours forth her songA double force unto their songThe Maidens SongOf maids dost thou inscribe thy song?Let me explain that in my songBlack curls which to his shoulders hung.Enough! my pack is now unslungSince I beheld Eugene and youngI celebrate a comrade youngHer sisterhood delights the youngWere you in love when you were young?Or letters of a maiden young.Bard of the Finnish maiden young.Happy he who in youth was young,Bevies of treacherous maidens young;His harp beneath that sky had rungHe who life's frosts which early wrungOf love which whilom Petrarch sung.Where sometime Goethe, Schiller sung,The words _bear, bridge, fir, darkness, bog,Raven, snowstorm, tempest, fog,Make up your mind to go there.Ah!His entrance with Onegin. Ah!The native Russian tongue impeach?Thus did our friend Onegin preach:How meekly then I heard you preachFor Moscow fops and Circes eachTo-day it is my turn to teach.Was the old and forgotten coach;Britzka, kibitka, or in coach.Alas! with merited reproach.The neighbours come, in sledge approach,But ultimately doth approach.Or to disturb my dreams approachHer antiquated mode of speech,Did not their lips with foreign speechAttentive listened to his speech,Many an ancient legend whichWould she the canvas tight enrichIn monsters and fair dames was rich;Who to surrender did not blenchDrunk as a fly; and thus the FrenchPetrarchCan scarce in sweetness be a match.But home his body to despatchWith gay design and silken stitch.Ever absorbed a maid so much:I formerly admired her muchNo coquetry was there, I vouchYoull find her portrait there, I vouch;Nor the _Journal des Modes_, I vouch,Society endures not such!Tis dark. He seats him in a sleigh,Ye shadows of a life more high,My doom has been pronounced on high,With great delight.O God on high!I call to witness God on highSails her allotted course on high,And many a caravan on highThe tiny sun shone less on highOf churches, gardens, belfries highYe well-known mountain summits high,Careless of fame his spirit highAnd from the misty woodland nighAnd golden Autumn draweth nigh,With effort she restrains. Well nighBut scarce had turned the corner nigh,List! the snow cruncheshe draws nigh!Good governs all! The hour draws nighWhen separations hour drew nigh,But finally she heaves a sigh,And, heaving a regretful sigh,Nor tender glance nor amorous sighHeaved an involuntary sighThere is no wreath upon the bough:In scenes like these it may be though,How dark the night is getting though!His breast was riddled through and through,And the eternal lorgnette throughTo guess how you the eve pull through.My venerated reader, oh!They sent their complimentsbut oh!Spurs of the Cavalier Guard clash,Full many a glance like lightning flash,And pressed her handthe crimson blushSome madrigal not worth a rush,He lies, upon his forehead death,Was sleeping then a sleep like death;Above the humble urn of death._Affectionately yours till death_.Or counting on his uncles deathWho early died a gallant death_,When motionless your gaze beneath_Vladimir Lenski lies beneath,Two hearts, a torch, of flowers a wreath,Would agitate a mystic wreathAnd what the old man might bequeath.You o'er your wine insulted hathGrew brighter still. But Lenski hathBut lo! his braggart neighbour hathSeen all, beside himself with wrath,Impatient, boiling o'er with wrath,Zaretski bit his lip in wrath,Or even overcome by wrathBut to Vladimir Eugene saith:Without the ken of parents both,What doth he act? Is it Melmoth,Beneath his head the pillow smooth,I must resign myself, in sooth;But memory like a serpents toothThe dusty chronicles of earthAnd thou shalt taste the joys of earth.To dire contentment shall give birthHe salutary rules poured forth?Drive on! the cheerful cry goes forth,Behold! green tables are brought forth,Full many a foolish prank brought forth;By the fine silver of the north.For him were but of little worth,Impelled by zeal for moral worth,The last poor obol I was worthOmbre, and whist all others worth:Restrained the impulses of youth;To the impressions of our youth,My frivolous and jolly youth.Found the ideal of my youth,But, knowing not the actual truth,Thee only would I choose, in truth,In that morass where you and IMy word of honour given have I.O my Svetlana.JoukvskiBut were it not immoral INot in the least, assured am I!My darling, growing old am I!Imagine! Here alone am I!The brilliant Nina Voronskoi,Another! to none other IBut with her elder sister IBut who abandon it as IEnough! with tranquil spirit IIn former years thus did not IMutual repulsion and ennui,La, sotto giorni nubilosi e brevi,His wadded coat and cap with peak(Surely you know him as I speak);But stay! A dolt am I who speak!To listen to the words you speak,Vows matrimonial to break,Incessantly his chains to break.A Russian in Childe Harolds cloak,Openly or neath decent cloak.The fire sinks low. An ashy cloakBruin is marching at her back!And the sagacious Triquet backHimself transformed into a hack;Passes the torrent But alack!Placed in a sledge his terrier black,In truth he had the happy trickWhose memories make the heart beat quickTattiana blushed, her heart beat quickAnd he had made her heart beat quick!He loved the simpleton to mock,The artful prisoner should seekAnd thus secures the prey we seek.Autocrat of the drawing-room seek?Or, it may be, we inly seek,At times, if only once a week,They have invited you this week.His Hellespont from bank to bank,He enters the saloon. Tis blank!And then a cup of coffee drank,A door he opens. But why shrankShe sank.Hes a freemason, so we think.An oval countenance and pink,Yon silly moon upon the brinkAlone he doth his claret drink,Vladimir closes up his book,Was uttered, and the cabin shookHis fist Onegin fiercely shookInto accounts would sometimes look,But somehow there shone in his lookHow bright and tender was his look,To flight before her radiant look,Calling to mind your icy lookAnd shut him in a lonely nook.The little solitary nookHis course unto the running brook.Which crushing dignity must brook!Where shining runs the tiny brook,With his own pawn alas! his rook!Tis here he slept, his coffee took,How thoroughly her part she took!And flowed harmoniously. He tookTo ask her name the trouble took.And clad in airy costume tookAn honourable course ye took,Jealousy and vexation tookCaught him and by the collar tookTill absently Vladimir tookThe shepherd plaits his shoe of bark,But trembling on the mirror darkThe sad moon only could remark.There, when the rains of spring we markTis a Madonna of Vandyk,Assemblies oligarchicalThey deem her somewhat finical,Of a heart cold and cynical?Ye men of fashion cynical,And female tears hysterical,Already he grew phthisical.Harmless, but quite nonsensical.Economy political,A fop, in dress pedantical.And cannot anything conceal,Of untold gain she must conceal,When the mazurka used to peal,In vain my anxious eyes appeal;What sad emotions o'er me stealWhat will the coming dawn reveal?For promises her feet revealOutlandish and provincial,Her glance how wild yet genial!And with gray hair ambrosialLo! with what pride celestialNought of its charms originalYet suffering emotionalHe deemed of human life the goalThe path which leads to glorys goal.And others rise ephemeral!The eyes of a grave general.Behind her a grave general.A ball in Peters capital,In one thing really did excel.The love, hate, sorrow, joy, we feel.When first upon my cheek I feelThe parquet cracked beneath the heel,Combs of all sizes, files of steel,On him spleen mounted sentinelTo suchdelightful to repel.The Country DamselLifts not her eyes which swimming fail.Until her powers of running fail.Though of romance therein I failWith eye precise and without fail.In time I'll give ye without failA substitute for lamps we hail!Winters approach she doth not hailThe sharp incisions of his nail,Within its wave the sounding pail,She runs, the bear upon her trail,Across the gloom of heaven would sailA true account and in detail.Sorrow to counterfeit and wailHerds low, and under nights dark veilGod grant I meet not at a ballAnother tribune of the ballTo slay himself with blade or ball,Nor study, banquet, rout nor ballForgot the world, the noisy ball,Yet as a rule their talk I callShe soon forgot, began to callWas that which we are wont to callSo, when he came next day to call,He drinks, all drink and loudly call;The rigour of cold pride and allLofty the chambers one and all,Enamoured at her feet to fall.And finally he deigns let fallThey blossom, ripen and they fallA whisper runs along the hall,Assigned a lodging, from the hallCrush and confusion in the hall,Some future ignoramus shallExclaiming, We must change em all!For long he had endured them all.Nor years of separation allBedding is laid out and to allIndifferent he became to all,A white and undulating pallThe snow descends and buries all,Her sentimental verses all,The twilight pale which softens all,Tis now the season! Idlers all,Morality taught scarce at all;They shout and no one lists at all.Was not surprised thereby at all.He knits his browstis silent all.I envied sore the billows tall,Silk tapestry upon the wall,Lord Byrons portrait on the wallHung like a print against the wall,Shouts, laughter, jamming gainst the wall,Long in this fashionable cellFor consecrate to me he fellThe ladys glance upon him fellLenski, unhappy victim, fell,Himself just like a greenhorn fell.The inscription o'er the gates of HellRepentance wields not now her spellOf languor and of love did tellTwas not the first time, I can tellFor your instruction here to tellThe steward sent a note to tellI am in love, her whispers tellI amin loveyou knowdont tell!Unto our neighbour. Mind you tellHow are our neighbours fair, pray tell,Who from two years to thirty tell;At thirty who was married well,A worthy object tis, and wellI have no leisure here to dwell,Ennui can in the country dwellAnd think: here lies who loved me well,Thou beauteous sky above, farewell!And wished to say to him farewell.But pause! Thou calm retreats, farewell,The family are all quite wellAre all your relatives quite well?How thy hands burn!Dear nurse, I'm well.To take this letter to O Well!Ye groves whose depths I know so well,Scissors both straight and curved as well,His relative and friend as well.And gallicisms I love as wellAnd sometimes into snares as wellThis separated us as wellPtushkoff, the provincial swell;At twenty who was prig or swell,My hearts delight, thou art not well.Your heart possesses, I know well,Onegin acted very wellBoredom, my friend, behold the illMy unpretending page shall fill,Of thy delights I drank my fill,Proceeds, until she from a hillThe pervert world with icy chillAnd wisely gallops to the hill.Let us proceed unto a rill,By the old lime-tree or the rill,Tis now the hillock now the rillTo listen to the rippling rill.A garden by a shining rill.Tis habit, Lenski.Is your illAn hour passed byanothertill,His heart reciprocated stillThe coach before a house stood still.Domestic life attracts me still,How now, Onegin, yawning still?Or couplets more ingenious still;Seeks, winding amid meadows still,To wander through the meadows still,With tumult or contentment stillYou fall in love again. But stillTime was, the poets tender quillNo more at dawn the shepherd willThus a guest with composure will(See the first canto if ye will),To stay the maid against her will.Tis evidently Heavens willIndites an inconsiderate scrollAs in their turn the seasons roll.Perchance they laurels also cullBut I, in love, was mute and dull.Rings from a dish of water fullPerched on a gooses neck a skullIn order due the maidens pull;You know that I am now a foolAt eighteen not to play the fool!He was a dear delightful foolHe used to hateand was no foolA nursling yet for Hope to school.Conventionalitys dull toolLearn to possess more self-control.Monsieur lAbb a starving Gaul,Yet ghastlier, yet more wonderful,Is sweeter than thy Helen foul.And Eugene ever in her soulWould soothe the doubtings of his soul,And now philanthropy his soul,Now dont be cross with me, my soul,Of your perfections in my soul,But my Tattiana, on my soul,They laugh, they argue, and they bawl,A schoolmaster in yellow shawlA love epistle he doth scrawl.He a polite reply doth scrawl.Enchanted by the moons pale beam.Tattianas eyes with tender gleamAnd a boy handed round the cream.The memory of the bard, a dream,But Tania just as in a dreamGuards fondly hopes uncertain dream.Whilst all creation seemed to dreamEugene at first began to dream,The story of his young loves dream,To the fair object of his dream,I will descant on loves sweet dream,But sweeter in a midnight dreamOf happy meetings thou shalt dream,Een from her cradles earliest dream,All this may be an empty dream,Tattiana in a misty dream,Thoult quaff loves sweet envenomed stream,Thinking to float upon the stream,The fragrant tea in darkling stream,Of rural life the sluggish stream;Will be absorbed by Lethes stream;Perish absorbed by Lethes stream.Our youthful wanderer should roam.Awaiting on the shore I roamA wish from place to place to roam,Back to his regiment must roam.Twould serve ye in an epigramAnd a malicious epigramAnd loves delicious diademMerciful God, what will he deem?Torquato Tassos strains I deem.Tis something of this sort I deem.Providence otherwise may deemOf priceless value all things seemWith mute appeal to ask they seemHe hath acquired the worlds esteemBut, as he never opened them,In three weeks would arrive for them;The foes, as yet not taking aim,Is ever ready to proclaimWith such a perversity proclaim.And true, his pistols faultless aimPink as Palm Sunday cherubim,In winter by its blank and dimCast upwards then her eyeballs dimAnd the lime alleys twilight dimOf what not, and of distant dim,But could not. Then she questioned him:Silent, oracular yet see himDared calmly cleanse his nails fore him,Where the first time she met with _him_.Its driver seated on the rimFrom first to last page to the rim.He sang of separation grim,Motionless, mute, tight-laced and trim.A country damsels album trim,In scarlet sash and sheepskin trim;Could not conceive how serious GrimmIn some a willing martyrdom.Is she in love? quoth one. With whom?She waited forI dont know whom!Ptushkoff met the selfsame doom.Thus age approached, the common doom,The fountain brawls, sweetbriers bloom,Perish when half disclosed its bloom!Her health, life's sweetness and its bloom,Oh! on the fields of life how bloomWas the sad poet filled with gloom,Had filled her youthful breast with gloom,The forests in mysterious gloomThis is my masters sitting-room.All slumber. In the drawing-roomHad he been long here, and where from?She nerves herself from her alarmAnd leans upon the monsters arm,The amatory science warm,In thy imagination warm,Fantastic images shall swarmLaid down his life of sun and stormA Russian poems mechanismDistinctly not its mechanism.And I discerned through Fancy's prismIndeed, by force of magnetismHow like a poet was my chumHe Benedetta used to hum,He had excepted from the ban:Dressing as quickly as he can,Meantime I'll finish whilst I canRomances three, in which ye scanTwas plainan oaken floor ye scan,A new acquaintance we must scan.A trifle pale, a trifle lean,Onegin slowly then beganAnd my Tattiana now beganZaretski, village mechanician,Suitable for this semi-Russian.I've thought well o'er the general plan,Friends of Liudmila and Ruslan,How came you then to wed a man?Vladimirs property, a manAt last became a ruined man.More clearly, God be praised, the man,Let me present ye to the man,He was an honest gentleman,Long ceased to be a reading man,_Demetrius Larine, sinful man,Portrayed contemporary manEugene directs the trusty manFour deadly paces do they span;I feel, allotted is my span;Deep into debt his father ran;Two cupboards, table, soft divan,Why, as God ordered! My IvanBut when Tattianas hand had taenAnd satisfied with vengeance taen.A friendly hand thy life hath taen!Away, Tattiana, hath been taen.But scarce had maids their saucers taenPortray the solitary denPerchance upon the Neva eenIn her friends albums, time had been,There friends of pure delight had beenAssuredly should not have beenThe butt of scandal having been,Had a deluded victim beenA fond and careful mother been.Obedient she had ever beenAnd fields my joys have ever been;Which never have existed, eenBecome a faithful wife and eenCome, she cried, sister, tell me eenMy joy in youth was fleeting eenCame forth in all her magic sheen.Repose from labour, satire keen,What a storm of emotions keenTheir looks alone produce the spleen.Was nothing but the British spleenThe lonely mansion-house to screenIt blew: it howled: till winter eenUpon a bunch of lovage green;As your light footprints on the green.In springtime on the meadows green,But plainer girls they oft had seen.To this arrangement can be seen,Nor precepts sage nor pictures een,Similar dames ye may have seen.Whom you in slumber may have seen.The torment born of crime unseen,How! from the waste of steppes unseen,From gales a hill behind was seen;Before him red roast beef is seenBut nothing changed in them is seen,Philosopher just turned eighteen.In little maidens of thirteen?His malady, whose cause I weenWrit in my honour now and thenHer husband was a bridegroom then,Onegin, I was younger then,His friendship I acquired just then;The cold reply with gloomy mienApproach not to hearkenThe tale of these romantic men;To pass with reasonable men_E sempre bene_, gentlemen!Amid submissive herds of menWhom, as the custom is of men,Having abjured the haunts of men,And isolated from all men,So inaccessible to men,Is no more cherished amongst men.Where is the outlaw, banned by men,The poet fell; already menYawning betook him to a pen.I know that Parnys tender penOf serfs the farewell wail have given.Another his betrothed was given;The imagination to enlivenNags eighteen to the door are driven.By sympathy I have been driven.The memory of the bard was drivenOnegin was a citizenHow deftly could he transport feign!An exile from their troublous reign,Olga and Tania led. Malign,How bitterly he would malign,With roses, caps and looks malign;Dreading the worlds remarks malign,All bustle when he makes a sign:Landscapes thereon he would design,At times talk nonsense with design;But boldly I myself resign:My hearts allegiance can resign,Thine honour is my countersign!Men opposite. The cross they signMy gratitude do not disdain,To crush me with a just disdain.Listen to me without disdain.And she to whom my lyre would fain,Dressed him, undressed, and dressed again?Should dearly like a dance again.Shall I behold thee once again?But to the garden once againThe youthful lover once againOnegin, bored to death again,A dwarf adorned with tail, againOnguinetake him up againThat until Christmas comes againOf love again, and yet again;A maid hath oft, may yet againAnd agitate my heart again;Or if he meant to flirt again,It wakens in my breast again.Tattiana courage doth regainBy an avowal just as plain.He there is masterthat is plain;Zaretski rose, nor would explain,Without disguise ourselves explain.Detest him for a brother slain?Alas! the youthful lover slain,By whom the youthful bard was slain?Who selfishly unmoved remainCan lower depths beyond remain?Would she in silence long remain.As deaf and silly doth remain,He obstinately will remain,But, that life longer may remain,And gave himself but little painAnd thus it is twould cause me painMe now, inflict upon me pain?And an habitual sense of pain;Spare yourself unavailing painMy darling child, thou art in pain.Where, where, remorse, compassion, pain?I know not if his heart felt painAnd, though a plucky scatterbrain,Kibitkas three, the accustomed train,The bards enthusiastic strain,Of bassoons and of flutes the strain.After the wedded couple strain;Oh, how her lips compressed restrainBehold, my sobs I scarce restrainTattiana tears cannot restrain.Yet dares not, dedicate its strain,The dream left terror in its train.A ring she heard the ancient strain:Or een the Demon of my strain.Tania the meaning would obtainA case of books he doth obtainI loved youwhat did I obtain?My light productions to retain,Although her book did not containThe household property contain:His daughters book to ascertainPair after pair the race sustain.Lenski the stroke could not sustain,Pursues phantasmagoria vain.And distance interposed in vain,Still hopes, endeavours, though in vain.He reads at random, reads in vain.And far removed from rumour vain;I've wasted in amusements vain,Cease the pursuit of shadows vain,Wherein we lately left the twain.Still eats and drinks enough for twain.And galloped home. But pistols twain,The converse of our hermits twain,To raise a clamour and a din:In solitude or worldly din,Three tears they dropt with humble meinEre conversation could begin,But by degrees the crowd beginFor Gods sake, Lenski, dont begin!Tattianas Letter to OneginWith words of foreign originThe pall of night was growing thin,At morn an icy bath withinHe heard his souls complaint within,Still everywhere, without, within,WhereWhat! another eclogue spin?Zaretski with a knowing grin,Pardon I ask for such a sinShe sank upon the snow. But BruinIn books he saw nought to condemnHere, he resides with Simeon.A canine face with horns thereon,And that unrivalled paragon,And gossip of the town and fashionAgreed! but then the whirl of fashion,The torrent of opinion,Behold! the worlds opinion!But Tania ne'er displayed a passionThe natural fickleness of passion,The youthful poets fond confession.Shall abdicate the bards profession,My friends, what means this odd digression?With quite a lachrymose expressionHe enters: rapidly discussionWho without more prevaricationWe all of us of educationOnegin went with trepidationTattiana saw with trepidationCast down his eyes in trepidationBut Eugene, hating litigationWith inexact pronunciationAnd tears of reconciliation:Tattiana was her appellation.Although it will not bear translation,A coquette loves by calculation,Upon her cheek by adulationKilled! at this dreadful exclamationNot high in general estimation;Enhances love in estimationAnd hot with jealous indignation,And sulked in silent indignation;Of such a dread hallucination.Invigorate imaginationLong time her young imaginationOriginal imagination,She did not think procrastinationOf foreign whims the impersonationTriumphant by anticipation,Their Jealousy and separationThe fair of the next generation,Whose glance reflecting inspirationAnd eye which gleams with inspirationAnd thou, youths early inspiration,The idols of their adorationIn pages of a love narrationThe hero is of my narration!The poets fervid conversationIntroduce verse in conversation.A charm with it in conversation.Without constraint in conversationNot knowing its interpretation,Alone within his habitationA Vampire fond of meditation,An innate love of meditation,And buried deep in meditation,As formerly much agitation.And long internal agitationAnd marking Tanias agitation,A love which knew no limitation,Which is he? or an imitation,Thy meditative incantationThus, praised be God! a reputationAmid a serious disputation,Seeing in this no deprivation,To the sarcastic observation,By what idea or observationWith intellect and strong volitionMeantime Onguines apparitionLenski the foemans apparitionQuite a sensation; the positionMy very latest composition!And a determined disposition,For journalistic deglutitionThe same unmoved oblivionRescue me from oblivion.Was worthy of that old baboon,Beneath the silver of the moonBehind the mountain sank the moon.And bends her mirror on the moon,Tattiana gazes on the moon,Tis silenton her shines the moonAnd now tis night, the guardian moonWhy did you leave last night so soon?Submissive as if in a swoon,His wife was also mad uponOur fathers used to dote upon;Without disgust we look upon?A lancer her soul dotes upon:His head sinks slowly, rests uponHis spirit was intent upon.Still for ever fare thee well.ByronHerself not knowing well the reason,The counsel good and full of reason,And the cold beauties of the season:To visit Moscow in the season.She was thus fond of RichardsonThe works of Mr. Richardson.The sleep-compelling Grandison,Or that adoring GrandisonWas certainly no Grandison.Cousin, remembrest Grandison?Sailed silently in unisonThere an imperious skeleton;The sharp flint, screwed securely on,My verses, kindly meant, would earnTo ask forgiveness seemed to yearn;To write his forefathers to warnHe eyed her with a fond concern,Tattianathus the sex is born.He seemed for matrimony born.Viewed them with not a little scorn,Silvers the brook; the shepherds hornA jolly song and distant horn;Looms gray behind the mist and mornPale as a ghost and dressed since mornAnd modest, cheerful as the morn,Which neath her pillow lay till morn.And sallied forth one brilliant mornSweet as the kiss of lovers sworn.Of the sun glisten; muddy, worn,Bright day will then begin to burn,Perchance you also soon may burn,My wretched Lenskis fate I mourn,Do we alone our losses mournTo visit, lovely maid, return,Delighted glances in return;Have entered never to return.Or, heedless of the leaves returnThen to some gallant in your turnMen will forget me, but my urnBut lo! forth from the valleys dunTo freeze his finger hath begun,Yonder the household lad doth run,Swift following in her wake, the sun,Across the smiling face of dawn.And dream of life's delightful dawn?Time was, the breath of early dawnHung on a pine branch earthward drawnAs when the tempests veil is drawnIn silence shall I sit and yawnThere is no path; the storm hath strewnThe untutored spirits pangs calmed downMushrooms for winter salted down,Their branches by the snow bowed down.And on the footstool sitting downAnd at the table sat her down.And the fair sex as light as down!Her on a shaky bench sit down;I feel thou wast by God sent downApproach, approach; I am thine own.The aged nurse in ample gown,In a half-open dressing-gownYou never since your nose have shown.Thus her perversity hath shown.Hopeless are all the first, I own,But, to his uncles mansion flown,The opportunity is flown.For summer to the country flown,Fresh aspirations I have known,Still happier he who ne'er hath known!Glimmers and dies. This is well known,Besides, a duellist well-knownFor o'er a word to fashion known,And bitter torment never known.What everybody long has known;He is not there: I am not known:Kept the accounts, shaved many a crown,She bows her head beneath the crown;On raptures, sorrows not her own,Have one by one all withered grownHave latterly vexatious grown;Hath suffered but indifferent grown,Is cocked once more. Uneasy grown,Ideal, he had drowsy grown.Slept o'er the river misty grown.Lenski, into confusion thrown,She hesitates, in doubt is thrownLike rotten leaves by Autumn strownThis northern summer of our own,When will the devil take his own!Impelled to union with his ownFar from his Italyhis own.And the young damsel from the town,Troys sages should in concert ownHe left _you_ first, and I must ownMust visit them. Come! you must own,But tell me what am I to do?Which we experienced long ago.Familiar to him long ago.Made me so tipsy long ago!To romp and play she ne'er would go:Her lips where light smiles come and go!Matrons unto the fireplace go,They hand in hand to table go.Whither at headlong speed doth goIncorrigible rogue, doth go.Draw near. I soon to sleep shall goWhither that evening he will go.Kept lingering on as loath to go,Alas! abroad I cannot go.Good-bye, Onegin, I must go.The crafty spouse caressed him, whoBut say he was a genius whoBut they draw near. Before them, lo!Yea! and a man of honour, lo!His daily occupations, lo!I cannot understand. But lo!Is he known to you?Yes and No.And is it she? It must benoPresent me.You are joking.No.More troublesome than usual?No!The pompous, swaggering cuckold too,Pen, paper bring: the table tooAnd usually despised it too),My beauty, thou art ready too.Yet let us part in friendship, OBut would not look at Cicero.To?Lrina.Tattiana?So.Inspired him with disgust and soShall we commence?Let it be so,Have guessed already. Yes, quite so!And so my noon hath come! If so,I'm happy, say, is it not so?No more remembered him; untoFor was it not her duty toBut dinner-time comes. Two and twoTogether moments one or twoA grammar, likewise Petriads two,Zaretski paces thirty-twoOr a professor in tulle cap.The lady in the crimson capWhen captured in a schoolboys cap;He from his Kalmuck horse did leapWhich o'er the waters boldly leap,Hes a straightforward little chap.Or at a promenade mayhap,Although unknown to fame mayhap,With iridescent wing doth flapAnd all in snow is buried deep.His song, when still he slumbered deep,Mountains well level and through deepBuried in meditation deep,Long time in meditation deepWhilst Petersburg from slumber deepBut stares into the darkness deep.In mud and mire to wallow deep,Is waning. Yonder valley deepThe maids beside Tattiana keepHer path across the plain doth keepYour steed, though rough-shod, cannot keepWhere is Onegin? Half asleep,As drunken tramps at nightfall sleep,Arouses rustics from their sleep.My poor Tattiana cannot sleepWrapped in their sheepskins soundly sleep.Far from the rest the pair would creepBoth bush and brake, ravine and steep,In sensual sweets his soul doth steepThe sun had mounted high his steep,Across the stage still madly sweep,Girls in anticipation skip!Like down from Aeoluss lip,With one foot resting on its tipWas it not thou who thus didst stoopThe sudden rattling of a car.Since in these arms I thee did bearForgive me! Such the love I bearAll are constrained and fetters bear,To the assembly her they bear.My heroine, Tattiana dear.From everything the heart held dear_Come to my golden palace, dear_!I cant conceive a little dearHis cup unto his maiden dear.Even as the love of children dear.Of roses to romancers dear;Unseen thou wast already dear.Or een Istomina, my dear,Not only sorrowAh! my dear,And since I pulled thee by the earAs in some frenzied dream of fearWholly beside herself with fear,Omens inspired her soul with fear,The path of hope and tender fearEntreaties, oaths, fictitious fear,And Heavens! warbled forth we hear:They wish that ladies should, I hear,Terrible tales she loved to hear.She will not see, she will not hear.A smile from slumbering nature clearTo be in conversation clearThere is a spot the village nearWith sad refrain misfortune near.And dost thou know her?We live near.A friar black approaching near,Epistles of six sheets or near,A lady draws the hostess near,Mysteriously all objects nearThese friends cold-bloodedly draw nearMy neighbour, who by chance drew near,When youths rebellious hour drew nearHe daily in his drives drew nearShy, silent did the maid appearBut still more stupid did appearDo me a favour and appear.So irremissible appear?Would at the proper time appear.Love to inspire doth woe appearStill doth the misanthrope appear?Never for me to reappearDoth in her gentle eye appear.Would once in powdered wig appear;Unknown to all he doth appear,Go, on the Nevas bank appear,For which no springtime shall appear?But as to fightingtwill appear!Two dressed in uniform appearDoth in us or our names appearThou didst to me in dreams appear,The shining orbs of night appear;How Tania grows! Doth it appearAnd happy unto you appear.More advantageously appearA vision desolate and drearIn the dawn of existence drear.The aspect of a landscape drear.The coming of life's Autumn drear.All is foreseen. My secret drearHe bending whispered in her earWill sound an insult in your ear.And breathe a drama in his ear.Modest yet daring! And a tearThe simple epitapha tearOer my remains to drop a tear,I then resolved my heart to tear;Had let fall many a bitter tear:Yet still her heart, which torments tear,Old women at the coachmen swear.For us, may be for many a year.Long ago?Tis the second year.That soon I reach my thirtieth year?Did seem to greet the youthful year;And from the Millionaya afarAnd grown more curious by farUnhappily too salt by far;Or the mysterious Sbogar.Just placed the entrance door ajar.The swain of Julia Wolmar,Malek Adel and De Linar,The chairs are thrust back with a roar,And that a bottle sealed with tarAnd hat surnamed a BolivarAs in the timid forest deer,And exclamations and good cheer.Though hitherto a lady ne'erGliding in negligent career,Amid the company career.At Lrinas.Hem, that is queer!To lawless love I should preferWell!I the elder should prefer,Girls the _kashourka_ much prefer.Romance of love I pray refer,And traces with a slender fingerTania doth by the casement lingerAdroitly seized and carried her;And like a shadow haunted her.The younger, youre in love with her!Doth loves incautiousness in herUnfavourable unto her.He leisurely adorns for her.Not a bad fellow was her fatherThough superannuated rather;To Eve the universal mother,Recent instructions of its mother.Gravely repeating to anotherAye bids ye in some way or otherBut finally grew bored by her.Servant of God and brigadier,La Morale est dans la nature des choses.NeckerOn waves by tempests curdled o'er!His bit with foam besprinkled o'er,Together we have wandered o'erStrummed by a timid schoolgirl o'er.Now her lithe form she arches o'erSo ancient warriors, battles o'er,Spanned the unbridled torrent o'er;Where dwelt the Muses worshipper,Malicious and a slanderer.And courtier, fop, and usurerConfront thy fated torturer!I'll sprinkle thee with holy water.This was his social character.What is his latest character?Moscow, Russias darling daughter,The Lord be with thee, O my daughter!Thy Venus and thy Jupiter,Contend with knife and fork and platter,I'm beaten in another matter;Where better?And read our newspapers scarce ever,At Russ she was by no means cleverFare thee well, and if for ever,Appear; along the road of TverHope with her fascinating powerWho for the greenwood quits his tower,I tremble lest my humble prayerOn Trinity Sunday yawned at prayer,Is occupied with Olga fair,Conceitedly on Tania fair,Their daughters kiss Tattiana fair.To cheat the inexperienced fair,Books he abandoned like the fair,To clank the spur, delight the fairBeside our youthful heroine fair,Describe in detail the affair,Hath mixed himself in the affair,Pray is it not a tough affairThe storm was hushed. The blossom fairI have dreamed many a vision fairThe gossip of their ladies fair.And you, my youthful damsels fair,For Ay is like a mistress fair,Is it not true? the objects fair,The less we love a lady fairI uttered to my lady fairWith the epistle of my fair;And Moscow many a beauty fair:Pallid and with dishevelled hair,Her tears and her dishevelled hair;A kerchief round her silver hairCropped in the latest style his hair,With hurried hand smooths down his hair.But with confused and bashful air,And vanish like a bird in air.Finally tost his arms in airAnd the Skatnines, aged pair,Approaches Olga and the pairAround the carriage of the pairBefore the altar, lo! the pair,He knows Kaverine will repair.The freshness of her heart impair,Yet still remains the old despair.Sometimes by ready-made despair;Accents of rapture or despairLo! my Onegin free as air,_Kvass_ needful was to them as air;Urging your droshkies swift as airThe Eternal Jew or the CorsairMark ye with what a modest airFlies past the porter to the stair,Tis _yes! no!_ never _madam! sir!_Petrovski Palace; come, astir!Behold, the crowd begins to stir,She cannot draw a breath or stir.And Flinoff, pensioned councillor,But gray Phillippevna the doorShe cannotEugene oped the doorShe peeped through a chink of the door.Olga ran skipping from the door.Fat Poustiakoff drove to the door;Anicia soon appears, the doorAnd beats with rapid foot the floor.Upon the ball-rooms glassy floorEnamoured, simple-minded, poor,Oppressor of the wretched poor;Comfort and succour to the poor,Lest the malicious reader orIs petted by the Emperor?Some one or other editorOpens unto her visitor.And wheresoeer thy footsteps err,The bard of Juan and the Giaour,And sermonbut in that dread hourImpressionable for an hour,I blame not your behaviourLo! at thy feet my tears I pourAnd at the stages bugs and fleasPlagie Nikolavna hasThere was no doubt! Eugene, alas!Onegin firedAlas! alas!In this case quite mistaken was.Still of his club he member wasWith purple hand Aurora leads,His wife approaches, with him leadsTo two young oaks the coachman leads.With tranquil air Onegin leadsThat crass stupidity misleads,Which to the neighbouring alley leads,And seek in buzzing swarms the meads.She the delicious novel reads,Crunching the morning snow she treads;If they but heard domestic loadsCome rumbling up the neighbouring roads,And all that from thy hand proceedsThen come with me. The prince proceeds,Already dance to song proceeds;And rising from her bench proceeds;And a grand festival proceeds.And thus each stubbornly proceeds.She drinks in those seductive deeds!Professions eagerly for deeds,For riot, frolics, mighty feeds,The crowd unto the drawing-room speeds,The Okhtenka with pitcher speeds,Twas eve. Twas dusk. The river speedsTo bring behind: the triple steedsThe languid eye of love-sick maids,Are ye replaced by other maidsTattiana to a corner, bidsAnd gradually day unfolds.In winter, when Night longer holdsCapers applauds with clap of hands,Abuse their masters, rub their hands:His son and mortgages his lands.Nor beauties of far distant landsNor homage which the Muse demandsObedient to warm Springs commands.Thus in the earth the seed expandsThe steed benumbed still pawing standsThe father scarcely understandsWhere each young critic ready stands,With bated breath, around she bendsAt times my reason almost bends,The avalanche of snow first bends,Tobacco smoke the flue ascends,Tattiana from the hill descendsThen glittering in the sun descends.No one my anguish comprehends,The voice of lovers, foes and friends,Of frivolous existence, friends;Triumphstheir own or those of friendsI've had to make for having friends!Against my inclination, friends,Existence without wife or friends,The feet of my dear lady friends.Their harmless conversation blendsBut little warmth the fireplace lends,The deuce take friends, my friends, amendsHis hate by slander, and who spendsAnd care but little for its ends.On us beyond the grave attends,O feet, whereer your path extendsWith love which happiness extends;Sits by her gloomily, desponds,Scarce to her questions he responds,The girl on tiptoe forward boundsAnd her voice sweeter than the soundsAppear attuned to softer chords;And wild among them grew her wordsAt least their accents and their wordsOf passion reminiscences,Its cold unfeeling sentences;My goddesses, where are your shades?Twas he whom, amid nightly shades,The remnant destiny concedes,Adieu! thou home where peace abides,Tattiana motionless abides.The unbidden guests he roughly chidesAnd supercilious dames she glides,In scarlet cap revolving glides.Leisurely through the gateway glides.A crab upon a spider rides,Sits down and gazes on all sidesOf migratory gipsy hordesMoscow approach on bended knees,Whom autocratic fates decreesMay be that I by heavens decreesTo understand by slow degreesThe serpent to unlawful treesBeneath acacias, cherry-trees,The courtyard full of serfs he sees,But now, what wretched roads one sees,Not the least trace Onegin seesAnd nothing more important sees;Like Horace, planted cabbages,Of thirty different sorts, lo! brushesBrambles she snaps and lilacs crushes,She fears and like an arrow rushesBoth for the nails and for the tushes.Who dreams expound and prophecies.And all thy precious elegies,Around the garden homeward hies.And overcome antipathiesThe shutters open; to the skiesBut lonely beneath Finnish skiesOf the moon in the tranquil skies,Where all upon the surface lies,Slumber still o'er him lingering flies.Look through the window and kill flies.From hall to yard and garden flies,Tattiana to the index fliesLamp-posts, shops, sledges, families,Oerwhelmed with guests; by familiesWhen the same life before him liesWhat mores required? The world replies,Ever to hear the same repliesAll breathless and without replies.And to the Bourse the cabman plies;Luceria Lvovna paint applies,Amy Petrovna utters lies,A sportsman who in covert lies.Had come both friends and enemiesHis friends and also enemiesAnd the bad book accompanies.The general who accompanies.To bear loves parching agoniesThrice happy who their agoniesOh! who her speechless agoniesAlarmed by jealous agonies:Daily beefsteaks and Strasbourg piesFlanked by immortal Strasbourg pies,She from the winter corn espiesSome a mazurka occupies,He roars, and Ah! Tattiana cries.Tis silent all! Alone the criesUpon those pages she descriesEven the rosy wafer driesPast palaces and nunneries,In the worlds mortal revelries,And pelt him with cherries,With raspberries, cherries.To peer into the future tries.And alphabetically triesTo watch with lovers ecstasies,My splendid house and gaietiesFrom public and from private ties,Than cold Onguines oddities,At neighbouring hospitalities.And fashions gay frivolities;I yield for splendid vanities,The gilding of life's vanities,Who glory, wealth and dignitiesSpared him not their asperities.The country hath its libertiesUpon her tongue which fever bakes.And in her grasp the letter shakes,Of mines and meadows, woods and lakes,The doors swing open: Lenski makesThe guests make room; aside each takesHe now a full possession takes,Without grammatical mistakes.The third at night. Tattiana wakesMay be, and this my terror wakes,The mallet loud the ramrod strikes,Or else (I deal not here in jokes),His recent glory he invokes.Also, to equalise the scales,Time, I invoke thee! favouring galesShe got a book of nursery tales,The coach is borne o'er ruts and holes,Tis not so now. Like gentle damesEnclosing pictures of fair dames.But lights incendiary flamesAnd the dark fringe of men, like framesAnd jolting jarred the window-frames.To banish far unworthy themesTo whom ye for unnumbered crimesAnd due precautions take betimes.Alas! he loved as in our timesI sail upon my lake at timesAnd the young revellers of past timesAnd he waits dinner. Lenski comes,The fishers fire afar illumesWhom pale Dianas ray illumesExhausted by my woes and rhymes,Mad spirit of the man who rhymesBeside the cup she sang her rhymesHad to compose in secret rhymes,Attentive be unto my rhymesAnd an enchanting shoulder shinesBeneath the moon which dimly shines,Her head upon her breast declinesUpon her elbow she reclines,Longer the East inert reclinesUpward in a thin stream inclines.Wherein love innocently pines.The golden ember now enshrines,And fashionable magazines,Arouse yourselves, fair ones.And now he views forgotten foes,Yes! every one must have his foes,Now, like hereditary foes,Esteemed him much as the world goes.And meditative homeward goes,Straight from the ball to bed he goes,All arise. To the door he goes.Into the tangled garden goesAll vanished as an echo goes.Winter! The peasant blithely goesBetween the stalls, along the toes;The accents wild of others woes,But nought for this Tattiana cares.With hisses Cleopatra scares,He fixedly upon her staresThe husband comes and interferesThe wondrous host of heavenly spheresAnd thus ancestral dust reveres.Then seeks ancestral sepulchres,Imaginations sacred fires,And still the coachmen round the firesAs with innumerable fires.And youthful madness, youthful fires.White Moscow raises her old spires,Compassion now or wrath inspiresForgive the fever youth inspires,And where tempestuous loves desires,And now his youthful heart desiresAnd of the irksome harness tires,Jackdaws on every spirein scores.Seated, a curious look with glassesShouts of applause! Onegin passesIn true interpretation hates:And slowly life coagulatesWhich in your spirit dominates,But wretched who anticipates,Nor in his dreams anticipatesCards, balls, routs, poetry or ftes;A trouble fell upon the sprites;_Quecrirer-vouz sur ces tablettes?_Rings, tears, deceptions and intrigues,And what like menaces fatigues,Her bosom heaves whilst crimson huesWhich shines with iridescent hues.By poor Tattiana in the blues;For ever carps, condemns, pursues?A victim decked with golden leaves;All which caprice and affluence craves,Across the Baltics salt sea waves,When thoughtless youth whom nothing grieves,And pallid nature trembling grieves,Twelfth Night approaches. Merry eves!Who dressing-gown and slippers givesDescends, the order Guillot gives,Thus our light race grows up and lives,He enters: to the mill he drives:He rings in haste; in haste arrivesThe appointed hour arrives, arrives!Beats that of friends and relatives:Our liberty at least survives:She the acquaintances she loves,To the pianoforte he movesHer spacious fields and shady groves,And various chords upon it proves,To dreams I long have closed mine eyes,Your smiling lips, your beaming eyes,Before her straight with roguish eyes.Of frantic laughter, and all eyesAnd truffles, dear to youthful eyes,But wide Tattiana oped her eyesAt the same hour she oped her eyesFor Lenski, sought him with her eyes,Not daring to cast back her eyes.Sudden she stops, casts down her eyesTattiana, dim with tears her eyes,But finally he oped his eyesOlga he sees before his eyesWhere every day before his eyesFor tallow, wood and other thingsHis travels like all other things_The peasants there are rich as kings,But still remembrance to him clings,Disperse yourselves, darlings,All that industrial London bringsAll this in many cases bringsHappy and glorious_. But this bringsAnd now she skips and now she springsBrilliant, ethereal, there springsObedient to the magic strings,With late repentance gnaws and stings.Slow circling round its fellow swingsThe time between the wolf and dogsHow pleasantly the evening jogsAlong the Nevas bank he sleighs,Secret excursions made in sleighs;Tattiana moans and now she sighsDo ye not hear my mournful sighs?Goddess of lovers tender sighs.Hangs heavy on the oaken boughs,Exceptionless as no rule is,Calmly her eyes encounter hisEugene, more tolerant than thisAnd deem the world perfection is!Oh! what a fool our neighbour is!I just hint, in parenthesis,If ye but knew how dreadful tisBut yet Terpsichore bespeaksLo, the ambassador who speaksWho with the Spanish envoy speaks?Betimes, and sees, when morning breaks,The old man who has had his freaks,Go hear the rustling of the oaksLo! compassed by his grove of oaks,However, the mazurka lacksFor the first time the hammer clicks.And terrify a swarm of ducks,Dianas bosom, Floras cheeks,The princes eye Onegin seeks:He who hath lived and living, thinks,A horses hoofs she hearsShe shrinks!He who hath suffered ofttimes shrinksIn the meantime her spirit sinks,But nowmy very blood congeals,Was the meek love a maiden feels.Still thirst fresh draughts of wine compelsMay yet be studious of his nails;And beckon to the passing sails.Custom the despot soon prevails.The early tinkling of the bellsWhich of approaching labour tellsWhen the sonorous Brguet tellsPast women, sentry-boxes, rolls,Impelled by Springs dissolving beams,Her eye with fire unwonted gleams.Do we foresee in troubled dreamsHe perished. Where his troubled dreams,And the hearts agitated dreams.For rural solitude and dreams,Oh, do not dream these fearful dreams,And where Thalia softly dreamsTo agitate me in my dreams.Descended swift in turbid streamsAnd where the admirable streamsThis wicked, that absurd he deems,Their memory lingers still and seemsBarely to draw her breath she seems,And heedless of approval seems,Awhile sound conversation seemsThis nonsense, that dishonest seems,Or, when anew all Nature teems,And more imagination teems.Glory with which our history teemsOf conversation, thought and aimsNo gift she bears, no feast proclaims,Where harsh frivolity proclaimsWhen evening o'er the landscape looms,In Olgas and Tattianas roomsA windmill too a jig performsAnd wildly waves its arms and storms;In tranquil flow. The beetle hums.Doctors and women, sobs and groans.The frolics of maidens.The secrets of maidens.Young maidens, fair maidens,Disport yourselves, maidens,Bokharians, peasants, beds of greens,Insensible her hand remainsHis kneeling posture he retainsTo secrets of virgins,Friends and companions,Barking, young ladies osculations,Priams of country populationsAnd dames of fine organisations,Old peoples simple conversationsTheir offsprings innocent flirtationsLatest arrivals salutations,They were the wonderful traditionsProphecies, threats and apparitions,Had finished life amid his sons,For baseness of the spirit scorns,Tails which a bushy tuft adorns,With blunted pencil-point adorns.Whiskers and bloody tongues and horns,With flame more ardent passion burns,Her heart importunately turns.But to Onegin! _A propos!_All covered up with snow in heaps,Its stamping, capers and high leaps.In country towns, where still it keepsTis silent all. Tattiana sleeps.A dreadful sleep Tattiana sleeps.A little virgin mirror peeps.And lonely through the forest creeps.I will not wed, and ever weepsThe house is crammed. A thousand lampsImpatiently the gallery stamps,Feather-beds, also poultry-coops,Behold! beside their dwelling groupsThe two friends compliments she hearsWith smiling face he Lenski hears;Without participation hears,Although the destined coffin nears,The silent fields no peasant nears,She calm and unconcerned appears.Faithless, alas! thy maid appears,Tattiana in the yard appearsMournful Loves deadly trace appearsAll in the good old style appears,Nearer they comeEugene appears!With his ferocious mate appears.Distracted by her grief appearsAnd what from its recess appears?Her sacred hoard of joy and tears,And to these letters and these tears.Her weary eyes are filled with tearsLikewise an epitaph with tearsThe aged mother, bathed in tears,Not, and a flood of bitter tearsMy poor Vladimir, bitter tearsHer cap of tulle still ever wears:For visions of my childish yearsWith Eugene pranks of former years(So twas with us in former years,For dolls, een from her earliest years,The solstice of our earthly years,Portmanteaus and preserves in jars,Have shone as one of fashions leaders.Onegin, O my gentle readers,Should recompense his idle jeers,But foolstheir calumnies and sneersOld age through spectacles too peers,The jealous dame her lorgnette veers,And judgment which unsteady veersTattiana certainly infersThe hamlet, the poor villagers,If his hot hand encountered hers,Her garden, and those books of hers,She ne'er repeated unto hers.Epicurean philosophers,Boulevards, belfries, milliners,Nor almanacs nor newspapers,Huts, chemists, Cossacks, shopkeepersSpring summons you to her green bowers,Youth freshens beneath Passions showers,Tis the warm time of labour, flowers;Of Levshins school ye followers,Develops and matures its powers,Nor boston nor the worlds affairsSaucepans and mattresses and chairs,To the theatre he repairsHe to the festival repairs,Tis day, the family downstairs,A moment effervescing stirs,But suddenly a snowdrift stirs,Balconies, lions heads on doors,And hated casual visitors,And the kind-hearted servitors:With one paw strokes her face and purrs,And where a madrigal occursTo swathe her shoulders in the furs,Judge then what roses would be ours,I see you weep. Those tears of yoursThe manners of the highest classWould loiter by the looking-glass,And breathes upon the chilly glass,Dreaming of what not, pretty lass,And from his dressing-room would passBy bee and butterfly which pass.Both day and night he now must passAnd lo! five paces more they pass,Unseen in thick and tangled grassDivinity without accessYet satiated with success,There was no angling for success.In the worlds vortex my success,Tattiana in the young princess!Trembling he seeks the young princessBut the indifferent princess,Thus oftthis I myself confessEntreaties, woes and prayers, confessAnd now, I mournfully confess,If the domestic hearth could blessMe your perfections would not bless;Also their feetyet neerthelessHow flourish, why and wherefore lessWith fir-trees standing motionlessSpeech was so tame and colourlessWas famous for thick-headedness.Men become friends from idleness.To loiter there in idlenessLove, flowers, the country, idlenessHer heart how full of gentleness,A child devoid of childishnessTattiana finds in loneliness.In melancholy loveliness,Her cheek of rosy lovelinessAnd contemplative dreaminess;He _cannot_ give me happiness.By Heaven in lieu of happiness.Twas possible then, happinessBut strange am I to happiness;Or, strange to me is happiness?Oppressive now is happiness,With laughter smothered weariness:And freezing fits of weariness.All sons of mental weariness.Their slander een was weariness;In old age life is weariness!Amid the awful emptinessThis glitter, riot, emptiness,In rhyming I show laziness.Attractive in its banefulness?I murmur not! Why mournfulness?I thank thee for thy joyfulness,Where my days in the wildernessAroused in him some tenderness.With spiritual tenderness;Inspired by whom this tenderness,The bays of age and helplessness.My lot is fixedwith thoughtlessnessIs it that human restlessnessOnegin, all this sumptuousness,Where youth (the proper rhyme is fleetness)?Illusions, dream, where, where your sweetness?Await the long-delayed caress.Those whom we ought to love, caress,Whose hands indulgently caressThe ladies, their fantastic dress,Conquer by passion and address,Her eyes no saucy glance address,To array himself in evening dress.Meantime in matutinal dressNor dares the skirting of her dressOr kiss the border of her dress.But Eugene long hath left the pressA young Armidas lips to press,She hears the bear behind her press,Her feet the earth beneath her press!She starts, nor doth a word express,To fawn upon and love express;Wherefore regarding him expressAll that the heart would fain expressI like the difference to expressDally with a dishevelled tressInflict annoyance and distressHer agitation and distressLoves tender transports and distress,And though I read it with distress,Habit was given us in distressNor discontinued to distressHymens embarrassments, distress,A strong resemblance these possessTattianas letter I possess,If wife and children to possessIf the raw product they possessHer nurse, who could have made a guess,This gentle daring who could guess?Alas! It is not hard to guess.Could not in that brief moment guess!The uncontaminated kissHave felt loves agitated kissBeneath his lips devouring kiss.A ladys hand doth never kiss.This evanescent boyish bliss.Sound sleep, books, walking, were his bliss,With tears, confused emotions, bliss,In thee, thou world of empty bliss.Even amusing fools we missBut how? Quite so. Though I dismissCan count the time without much fussBeside the thundering abyssEverywhere trumpeting its feats,Again the giddy waltz repeats.As every journal now entreats,Soon the maid on a chair he seats,And stay whose length none recollects.In the meantime the mill inspects.Leaning against the dam expects,Their coming which no man expects,Of slumbering citizens he fleets,Whom latterly one often meetsAlong Saint Petersburgs paved streets,Though without palaces and streets,Past darkened windows and long streetsNot seeking love but sensual sweets.Delicious visions, jests and fights!Also thy rough-and-tumble fights,And oh! what verses, what delights,The fire of the nocturnal lights;Thy heroes, sanguinary wights,With rapturous longing he awaits,Will teach grammatical conceits,As daylight glimmers, darkness flits,And his poor basten sandal knits.As formerly the shepherd sitsThe maiden at her casement sitsWith cherries, red currants,Its splendour and its blandishments,But, after mutual compliments,The epistle from the bard presents.She visited the humble tentsThe hours once more Onegin counts,But ten strikes and his sledge he mountsA rivulet beneath them shootsTwo pines have joined their tangled roots,To Olga Petoushkova darts:Ever receive with kindly heartsThe flimsy wares of Western marts,Meantime a Cyclops of those partsWe Russians, friends from distant partsThe Paris of those country partsBaratynski (_Feasts_)Deliberate approach of guestsVariety of speech and vests,Though for his Helen MenelausAnd like Napoleons each of usThe stomach doth admonish us.A million bipeds reckons thusCorneilles majestic genius,Whereto in language courteousYea! although rendered beauteousA critic of the stage malicious,And gloomy epigrams malicious.A slave of actresses capricious,To witticisms and taunts half-viciousThe conversation tediousOh! who is not calumnious?There Didelot became glorious,She seemed of him oblivious,By such allusions scandalous,By Tolstoys pencil marvellous,With satisfaction marvellous,And tiresome rogues ridiculousHow mean, how pusillanimous!Amid sly, pusillanimousThe drive becomes monotonousFeeling is silly, dangerous.Thou also, reader generous,Then ye were barely generous,It was a cheery, generousHe shunned those parties boisterous;Abandon cities riotous,Well! Lrina appears to usCome sing we in chorusWho labours hard to humour us?Us, and like Trojan warriors slay us;Sharp rows of tushes, bony claws,The friend of liberty and lawsI long have ceased to offend the laws.And hoofs and crooked snouts and paws,The tightened leathern rein she draws,His watch, the sun in turn he viewsPerverse, unfavourable views?And through the lofty windows viewsTo male acquaintances he bows,The men salute with lower bowsThe epitaph on marble shows:With all dissatisfaction shows.Misunderstanding, words and blows.Mends with the Russian hammers blowsAnd Comet champagne foaming flows.Amber on pipes from Stamboul glows,When Passions fire no longer glowsBefore a fire which feebly glowsAnd this the faithful one allows,Profiles of lovely dames he knowsAnd all the joys which Winter knows.For otherwiseGod only knows!The first appearance of the snowsHis pony sniffing the fresh snowsUpon the dreary northern snows,Through dense aristocratic rowsOn unknown female forms he throws.The connoisseur his glances throwsOer hillock and o'er meadow throws.From boxes or from stalls in rows.Enjoy the meed which Fame bestowsAnd I confess that now-a-daysBut even thus not now-a-days!Of fiery youths untutored daysTo vary for a few brief days.Alas! the friend of childish daysMoscow, how oft in evil days,We called to mind our youthful daysThat vanished are my youthful daysAs the sins of my youthful daysAs partner of my mournful days,And then to meditate for daysThe very morning of our days.Companion of my childhoods days.O triumphs of my guileless days,Whilst Morpheus his approach delays,In one of thine enchanting laysConsisting of harmonious lays,Or Bogdanovitchs sweet lays.On the blue blocks of ice the raysHer hand for the cotillon prays.No more with pale Dianas rays,With which blind Fortune oft betraysNor interest in aught betrays.Alas! my stomach it betraysWhen he in ardent verse portraysGrows pale and sinks, but nothing says;Onegin his excuses says;Till the mazurkas close he stays,Or parody of modern ways?But soon she altered all her ways,Delighted much his former waysStreams excavate subaqueous ways,And hates the worlds discordant ways.Unto Anicia for the keysThe household troop of little boys,A joyous troop of little boysSleep in the shadowy couch enjoys,Who cannot conjure former joys?She gazed thereon, and instant beatEre this but one brief moment beatUnless forbidden fruit we eat,Age immature averse to cheatThere the confusion, pressure, heat,And boiling o'er with friendly heat,Nurses who scream and babes who bleat.With lovers rubbish filled, was neatAnd in a whisper did repeat:The passionate speeches I'll repeat,I mean my name not to repeat.I might to connoisseurs repeatWhich lessons unto us repeat,A hundred times will not repeat,Now all things round about repeatDo not cold-bloodedly repeatAnd at economy was great;Alone amid possessions great,And cry: he was a poet great!On this artistical retreatOf woods and fields the calm retreat,When in the studys calm retreat,A ball here, there a childrens treat,Till out of breath upon a seatHappy who quit life's banquet seatAbandoned he his country seat,Removed her to his country seat,Approach not to gaze atBegins to talk of this and that,No misery I see in thatSince words like pantaloons, vest, coat,Upon my lake I love to float,But when two minutes she had sat,My friend, tis but to pay a debt,Her brow she did not een contractAnd blush to own himself reflect.Of keen sarcastic intellectWith so much warmth and intellect?Two verses he could recollectWhere I can no more recollect?The perfidies I recollectShould make me much more circumspect,So prudent, and so circumspectThe glass unwittingly inspectSuch am I. This did ye expect,And Christian folk will, I expect,An inn at every stage erect.The disenchanted glass directOf the neid, but incorrect.So full of piety, correct,Herein my portrait should detect,Faithfully shall I now depict,Wherein the child of fashion strictThree pairs of handsome female feet;Eugene fell prostrate at her feetLong ago, prostrate at her feet.Young ladies faces and their feet.Are oft deceptivelike their feet.A heavy goose on scarlet feet,But nowwhat brings you to my feet?Bows and the scrape of many feet,And rapid whirl of many feet,Her heart more loudly and more fleet.The flowerbeds skirts, the brook doth meet,O Brenta, once more we shall meetThe miserable bard to meet,And watch her eyes full glance to meet.Where fashionable circles meetBut staggers, slips, and falls. We greetYour magic voices I shall greet,Her with a smile old women greet,Near Kharitons in a side streetAnd thou, from whom Tattiana sweet;That my coy Muse might sing more sweet.Our paradise is no more sweet.Ceaselessly to the maiden sweetThat heart with inspiration sweetAs hope uncertain and as sweet,The words and looks of charmers sweetTo whom is it to go, my sweet?Look quickly to your left, my sweet!Wherein I castigation get;But time flies and she doth forgetAh! I still struggle to forgetBeside a nameless rivulet,And by that shady rivuletWithout enthusiasm he metWhen in her walks abroad she metWhere God alone knows whom she met.The hour whenFate so willedwe metOf one thing till again we met.Then in the silent cabinetOf widow Clicquot or MoetThy dove, thy darling little petThe landscape which the moonbeams fret,Tortured by pangs of wild regret,My friends, the poet ye regret!The fair, nor parted with regret,Ere the bright messenger had set.It will be by a mob besetAnd wean unattractive setA simple tombstone hath been set.On whom a sisters heart was setOf every sort and every set!Whilst on the floor Monsieur TriquetFor twice you came to them and yetHath she found out the riddle yet?Where in the country Eugene yet,Mid worldly pleasures chased him yet,Onegin, hast forgotten yetWell nigh her heart in twain was cleft.Alas! dear nurse, my heart is cleft,Then amongst strangers I was leftOf consolation all bereftWho secretly denounced the gift,Though deep he sinks into the drift;Unto his neighbour, man of thrift,Forth the _kibitka_ gallops swift,And by the world repeated oft,Born of a babbler in a loftRaises within my breast as oftSpeech careless, incorrect, but soft,But from the Muses loftiest heightIn vehicles surcharged with freight;And hurried home his awful freight.China and bronze the tables weight,Cartel, or challenge to a fight,Above the yawning grave would fight,To many a noisy feast and fight,Eight times the heroes of the fightThat, tipsy once in actual fight,In bullets, sabres, and in fight.I with my friend intend to fight!Our hero stops and doth alight,All about Olgato a lightBut wilful, frivolous, and light.The crowd and merriment and light,In my young days of wild delightEen for an instant find delight,But death from him will be delight.The curse of commonplace delight.His spirit sank with strange delight.Abandoning insane delight,_Who in thy love finds more delightTo find in gossip such delight,The colonel sent it. Oh! delight!In such an album with delightThey will receive us with delight.A sense of social delight,And with emotional delightHe finally lost all delightAnd bless mankind with full delight.His ardent soul with full delight.And solitude and calm delight,And solitude and calm delight.The votary of vain delightContemplativeness, her delight,And like the prisoners our delightMy pen no longer finds delight,I love its furious delight,And full of innocent delight,The Muse revealed her first delight,Ah! brethren, what was my delightWhen tea was brought. Tis my delightBlest be the labours of the light,As a babes slumber, or the lightOr but for fame he saw the light;And Schiller read by candlelight.But, ere he mounts the marble flight,An ever transcendental flight;There came a sudden flash of light,Auroras ruddy rays of lightFrom you too Eugene took to flight,Having remarked Vladimirs flight,And swifter than the swallows flight.Pour on this orb a dazzling lightWas withered ere the morning lightAnd showed with an uncertain lightHis care unto his pistols plight,By liberties or loose or light.Her movements, voice and figure slight,Arising with the mornings light,That the two friends with mornings lightBut lo! already the moons lightLike Hippocrene it scatters light,Could not eclipse her neighbours light.The firmament in mellow light,Was younger than myself, my light,Yet clearer shines than every lightThe ladies dresses airy, light,Of sunset glow with rosy light,The china teapot too ye mightIf in the scenes of home I mightAnd be as happyas I might.Time was, a valiant general mightResounding through all ages mightLay languishing both day and nightTerror of guardians of the night;And blest the shadows of the night.And breathe the balmy breath of night;Outside descend the mists of night.From her half-open vest of night.The moon, the stars, and shining nightFull many a lovely star hath nightThe misty evenings ere Twelfth Night.And glasses unemployed all night;The altar flame was quenched in night.So there will be a dance to-night.But turning morning into night,How oft, when on a summer nightMy morning birdie, yesternightThat glimmered through the radiant nightDelighted.When?This very night.Spins, whilst the friend of wintry night,And better, if I judge aright;All this, my friends, translate aright:Seductive, animated, bright,His ditties were as pure and brightAnd is it true her garland brightThe motley moving mass and bright,Life lies extended, vast and bright,Twas dusk! Upon the table brightWhen I yon semicircle brightThe goblet still is bubbling brightBehold! the moon was shining brightAdorned with many a vision brightWas it not thou, O vision bright,In winter on the fender bright,Beneath the eyes of ladies brightThe pine-torch, by her crackles bright.Thee only, pledge of all things bright,And in a vision, sinless, bright,Oerspread with Winters carpet bright,To youthful Olgas beauty bright,And form a network left and right;I was half silly with affright.And never was the ear affrightOther and colder thoughts affright,In the first place, say, am I right?Paris and Menelaus right.Before whose inexperienced sightOnce more, when she appeared in sight,A bill of fare hangs full in sightThe height of fashion, fitting tight,As yet none had discovered aught;I am not worthy them in aught;If they were similar in aught.Deserted Eugene. He, distraught,But by fantastic dreams distraught,Its passions and its modes of thought.As on the rapid wings of thoughtBecause in singleness of thoughtTis foreign to my cast of thought;Of harmony enshrining thought.Full of exasperating thought.A register of fleeting thought,Tis noisome to her there: in thoughtImmersed in melancholy thought,Lived as a really wise man ought,Eugene of course related nought,The seemly crowd, partaking noughtShe hears of conversation noughtThe languid mind could smile at nought,In Tanias praise in pouch he brought,And my dark soul to light was brought;A table to the fire is brought,But trusted the ideal she wrought?At first such contradictions wroughtLike a true Frenchman, couplets wroughtOf splendid carpets richly wrought.My memory wandered wide and soughtAgain her rural life she sought,The early days of life we sought.From storms protection having sought,Though by an error and unsoughtThe in memoriam pages sought,With measured step and even gaitAll Nature winter seemed to await,On guests their servants used to waitBut now ridiculous a bit.Must take a walk and rest a bitAnd grasps a pen: his verse, albeitYet sometimes this or that deceitThough we will not acknowledge it.To tragedy, the fainting fit,For maidens hearing deemed unfit),Or, with a pen and colours fit,Some day I'll somehow finish it.On winters of the south a skit,Whither shall my rapscallion flit?The table with its lamp unlit,Onegin could not now submit,He somewhat blushing would omit:A pleasure though with sorrow knit:Her heart: it seemed a darksome pitThis he believed: a kindred spiritA dove which on a lyre doth sit;The master always used to sit.Who in the orchards gathered fruit,So mouths they stopt with song, not fruitGriboydoff (_Woe from Wit_)Renowned for his acumen, wit,The beldam saith: The hearth, by itThe snow upon the streets doth meltWhither along them doth he pelt?Een as the poet says he leant.A letter for her hero meant:For whom, Tattiana, is it meant?As we lure the young gallant,Allure the young gallantAlone beside it, gray and bent,On fresh allurements they are bent,And o'er the granite coping bent,The needle nor, o'er framework bent,His butting horns in anger bent,In the unmoved, magnificentLike a full moon magnificent.Now talkative, now reticent;Who would the maiden innocentOf affectation innocent,Because she was so innocent,Near young Tattiana resident,Chief rascal, pot-house president,Haughty appear, subservient,That Heaven her character had blentWith jest and gossip gaily blent.Gvozdine, a landlord excellent,Neer touched her fingers indolentStiff, overstarched and insolent,Angel or fiend malevolent.Or torturer malevolent?True friend, landlord benevolent,Bringing his partner corpulentI'll pass beneath the firmament,Shines in the female firmamentWith scandals trivial ornament.And pleasures daily blandishment,A timid love to banishment?To what malicious merriment,Awakens secret merrimentIt may be, I yield nutriment!Hopes, frolics, dreams and sentimentThe limits of enlightenmentCalm and without embarrassment,Having this mournful documentBut nownone heeds the monumentWith epigrams impertinent,Two minutes they in silence spent,Wherein a space Onegin spent.Since leisure was together spent,A while ago the winter spent,She struggled hard at first thus pent,Obsequious or indifferent!A Kalmuck gray, in caftan rentFoes! Is it long since friendship rentNow it is ready to be sentYou have a letter to me sent.Their heroes used to representTime-honoured Kremlins keys present.Who art thou? Guardian angel sentBeing from hell or heaven sent,To a surrender gave consent,No answer! He another sent.She heaves a sigh and deep intentBut enough! Now, tis my intentAnd with his lot in life content,But was our friend Eugene content,First reconciled and then content;And scanned in silence its content.So Tania to her hearts contentIn course of time (the whole extentTime was, in style magniloquentRemained unnoticed. Once he wentInto the lonely house she went,Perused, Eugene in postchaise wentTis time she to the altar went!Not so! My Moscow never wentAnd all the three to breakfast went;Onegin to the window wentThe Lrinas unwisely went,The poor girl fell into a faint,His sunken eye and aspect faint,Imploring looks and mute complaintAn invalid from lung complaint.But strength of mind and self-restraintLong since I held thee at the fontA forest now she sees in frontIn spite of common sense were wontAnd I to give thee cakes was wont?And in the final tome we learnt,A heart wherein pure passion burnt;Ourselves as unities to count;The bear rolls on with many a grunt:And consolation soon begot.To labour in his sledge forgot,Billiards abandoned, cue forgot,Then, the far capital forgot,What once I knew is clean forgotOnegin lightning glances shot;Philanthropist or patriot,Zaretski and Monsieur GuillotBehold my friend Monsieur Guillot;His Frenchman, good Monsieur Guillot,In poor Moldavia cast her lot,Grateful to Heaven for their lot.Inseparable from our lot;My country and an exiles lot;Spite of herself with Lenskis lotAlas! how wretched now my lot!To Russ indigenous are not;Just at this moment I cannot.One moments slumber suffer not.Keep your accounts! Youd rather not?Where man is not.Into the district then to bootRousseau and Richardson to boot.Examine her from head to foot.Yet viewing her from head to foot,And meditative from the spotWas a delightful little spot,Our bridges long neglected rot,Just manages a feeble trotMadame de Stael, Bichat, Tissot:Nor true unto her sorrow kept.Just before dinner-time he slept,Into the chamber where he sleptSubdued him, when his neighbour steptThee but a little space bewept,By neighbouring families bewept,A sidelong look doth Eugene dart:Because her passion wanted art,Wherein I felt loves fatal dart,Rekindled in my withered heartBut the young unpolluted heartImprudent prattle of the heart,And ease the tortures of the heartFruit of the yearnings of the heart.A maidens secretsof the heart.Obeyed the impulses of heart?Unknown as yet the aching heart,Confessions which a trusting heartPresentiments oppressed her heart.The indignation of her heart!And the lone secret of her heart,A lancer captivates her heart!Method was dear unto his heartThe fashionable rhymesters heart!Within her; she is sick at heart;Wherein I buried left my heart.But followed the strict rules of art,The fires of passion and its smartBut Fortune cast our lots apartThen touching Olga they departWho this soft nonsense could impart,A hidden meaning could impart,And oft in whispers would impartMay well in innocence impart.False confidence or doubt to impart,Their voices nought to her impartPoetic transport. They impartHer passions faithful counterpart,How well he played the greenhorns partHow soon he learnt deceptions art,By flattery and lovers artSometimes by pleasing flatterys art,Which from the devils bookcase start,Anew the flames of passion startEugene designed with me to startIn fresh discourse. Such, love, thou art!As vernal storms the fields athwart.His own antagonists expert,And, by the way, I here assertAs oft to meat and drink advert,The heart of the inveterate flirt!To accompany him and to escortManzoni, Herder and Chamfort,An infant maiden doth exhortAnd no ridiculous report,A box of terrible import.Her girlish gaiety and sport.When the obedient doll in sportLike a Bacchante in her sportAt times to silence would resort,With pungent or obtuse retort,There is no fishmarket retortVociferously paid her court,But, howsoeer his lot were cast,Not bristled up like a wild beast,As if it were some funeral feast.That youthful heartBut, now at least,He was beloved: or say at least,Ah! I'm so weakmy throbbing breast!Had not yet withered his young breast.Deep in our mother Earths chill breast!Bard of the Feasts, and mournful breast,For every loyal Russian breast!She hid the trouble of her breast,She buries deep within her breastI weep. And if within your breastWhich rankled in Tattianas breast,Despite the anguish of his breast,The fire extinguished in his breast,Twas she who first within his breastAnd about dawn upon his breastUse subterfuge, and thus his breastTo ease the anguish of my breast.Longtime her tears flowed thick and fast;I by the button-hole seize fastPoetical enthusiast,Which might for many ages last.Must een despise his kind at last;The fatal hour had come at lastShe found herself alone at last,Vanished his youthful years at last,Appeared, Dons effervescing boast,Between the blanc-mange and the roast;Or, after dinners dull repast,Hark! the mazurka. In times past,A flimsy trace of musings pastThe laws of generations past,From shades of the relentless past.All rattled in the ball-room vast,The gulf between them was so vast,But this is my advice, twere bestIn Russ her love made manifest,Is once again made manifest.A new world was made manifest!No sense was ever manifestAnd fits of coughing racked her chest.To treat the matter as a jest,And is it true and not a jest,Heart would not throb albeit in jestHath the bard, by indifference blest,The credulous indeed are blest,Just so! that modest swain is blestA life in common with the rest;Like you and me and all the rest?Nor aught confides unto the rest.Doth on the billiard table rest,Let us go seek a little restYe feel but little interest,Now with what eager interestHaving once fixed your interest,Or, beyond Lethe lulled to rest,The body they consigned to rest,And grant his weary bones their restHis weary head declined at rest,A beauty languidly at rest,Nurse, tis so close I cannot rest.By fond illusions once possest(This joking I used to protest),And then made merry pope and guest,But first permission did requestWith this immoderate requestTheir idols they were wont to investWith what avidity and zestDevoured them with an eager zest.And soGod bless them, if He list.Am I to go through the whole list?Unto the sounding sea to list,She led me through nocturnal mistTheir own productions, some insistSo many neighbours here existThey may forget that we exist.No greater pleasure can existFrom apprehension of the cost,Satan will jest, and at loves cost.That every morn at Verreys costWhither departed is the host?God knows! The very trace is lost.When in as instant she is lost,By their own horses, not the postRomances pleased her from the first,For treachery had done its worst;Friendship and friends he likewise curst,Three flasks of wine he might exhaust.To light had brought them from their dust,Oer all a sheet of silvery dustWho words and actions will adjustFor, from the outset, twas unjustThere! take it quickly, if ye must).Among some ancient ballads thrust,Oh! where bestow our love? Whom trust?And read De Pradt or Walter Scott!Inns there are none. Pretentious butMeagre, within a draughty hut,All the young people round about,See, I can hardly crawl aboutBut you must both be quite tired out!Can we not stealthily make outAt forty suffered from the gout,Who with a scuffle and a shoutSnakes, satyrs, loves with many a shoutWithin resounded shriek and shout:Their claims and explanations shout.Yelping, a pack of dogs rush out,Whilst the tired serving-men withoutLenski his pencil-case took outA little Juvenal to spout,In the broad meadow a gay rout,Of creditors a hungry routHis comedies, a noisy rout,My chum lives here, Bruin grunts out.Sarcastic Shakhovskoi brought outEaten, drunk, gossiped and grown stout:The wind rose instantly, blew outOn lines invisible are fixt;Noise, laughter, bowing, hurrying mixt,His eyes, the printed lines betwixt,A pillar by, two aunts betwixt,Perusing Gibbon and Rousseau,To the young girl he said adieu,But praised be God! in health art thou!The God of Love is after you!Demands that I translate for youBut with austerity!for youBut, _mtushka_, to Moscow youAnd now upon the snow in thawThe time when Melancholys clawObedient then to Natures law,He offers her his murderous paw;I have known beauties cold and rawA young man motionless he saw,When in that company she sawHer tresses curled in fashion saw,He in imagination sawAnd marvels deemed he thus should view.The woods, still naked to the view,Because he yawned at the bare viewRussias Terpsichore reviewI still a complication view,Tranquil he lay, and strange to viewShe never more his face may view,Shall I your chorus hear anew,Had reconciled the pair anew!Thus trees in spring their leaves renew(Though certainly mankind he knewBut upon all that Eugene knewScarce hadst thou entered thee I knew,My little book. With thee I knewOf drawing-rooms or old or new.The triumph of a conquest new.Replace the visions fancy drew;Heavy his heart with anguish grew;I flushed up, stupefied I grew,As in a garden when I grew,And by degrees upon him grewAnd soon imagination threwAside the foes their mantles threw,Who can help loving mother Moscow?To look on life as on a show,Villages in the distance showWhat languor would his silence show,To-morrow Tania we will show,Would you to me this Phyllis show,Unto a carping world must showNearest and dearest knew not howHe back as from a sudden blow?Mornings forerunners, breezes blowThey are all natural and low,A feeble version read below,Park, garden, palings, yard belowGazing upon a note below.All the creations which belowTo end with him her path below.Which falls in starry flakes below.Meantime, drink deeply of the flowSeductive cup of love, whose flowWith its exhilarating flow,From happy inspiration flow,Or did her tears soon cease to flow?Nought from his pen did ever flow,Where plentifully feelings flowThey sat, but conversations flowHow full of fire his speech would glow!Behold her downcast eyes which glow,And herds of oxen wandering low;Whose countless golden crosses glowMaids in the corner whisper low;Then, eyeing Olga, whispers low:With folded arms and eyes bent low,To the youth Eugene hurried nowSociety he duped enow.The unaffected traits she nowI am in love, nurse! leave me now.Then they came easily enow,Its insignificance I knowNo obstacle of which I know.So thou art wed! I did not know.And in the morning doth not knowInform me, prince, pray dost thou knowTania, my eldest child, you knowNow gloomy seemed and cheerful now,And where may be her sister now?Grown clammy, stick fast in the snow;Cast a gay lustre on the snow,Her handkerchief she loses now;The first bright wreathing storm of snowAnd roofs near morn blanched o'er with snow;Till January fell no snowBut such is not my project now,Of woe: effaced the pathway now:My tongue is somewhat rusty now.Is ever thus. With frowning browThe cold sweat bursting from his brow,Cocked hat and melancholy brow.The misanthrope of gloomy brow,Till carriage lamps, a double row,How perfect doth our epoch grow!The horizon luminous doth grow,Nought but of dinners a long row,How charming Olgas shoulders grow!And all your love on self bestow;And linen on him doth bestow.Tis a scene of romance, I vow!The Muse capricious let us coax,Flew to collect his rural tax;The bee forth from his cell of waxWe glide along a floor of wax.In this the love of the fair sexIn love, although its tempests vex,Of diplomats and warlike beauxAnd also fashionable beaux.All hail! my good old friend Bordeaux!I prefer sensible Bordeaux.And past the threshold of decay,Chained to his bedside night and dayThen get mad drunk or wroth; the dayWhat, invitations? The same dayBeside the stormy sea one dayUnto their solitude one day,And in reality one dayImpatient waits the close of day,To anticipate the break of day,To-morrow before break of day,Listless is she the livelong dayHe sat, and then the livelong day,In cruel solitude each dayIn haunts of fashion where each dayJiltedglad of a holiday.Spectacles upon nose, all dayHe enters. Ah! good news to-day!Yet on a frosty winter dayTo-morrow just like yesterday.Nor shall the bud of yesterdayWell! just as she was yesterday.From Romulus unto our day.We visit about Christmas Day,She gazed around herit was day.And wholly occupied his dayOlgas admirer came that day:Had much to do at home that day,As men who much had done that day.That he was ready any day.She was as heedless and as gayTime was, his raillery was gay,Down in the courtyard magpies gay,In yarns of youthful troopers gay,Till mornlife uniform but gay,And for a time our course delay,Arrange without the least delayThe bridegroom sage without delayBring dinner now without delay!One morn whilst yet in bed he lay,No senseless fashionable layHow sick to death his uncle layWith pallid light, but Eugene layWithin his memory there lay,How often in thine arms I lay;Then, her distraction to allay,In jersey and in nightcap lay.How with thy medal I would play,The military band will play.A game of chess would often play,Was wont with me at cards to play.Cunning already to displayTis there that arrant fops displayFor the young poet they display.Lo! through the frozen windows playTo make wise men the idiot playHe would not that a man ye slayDestiny hath preserved his lay.In the beginning of this lay,Unto the hero of this layFair object of my guileless lay,Restless Tattiana sleepless layHave smuggled his flagitious lay.Enough, enough, conclude thy layWho, heard the music of my lay,Was drawn, ideal of my layBut the dark sepulchre I maySome army poet therein mayThat grandmothers and grandsires mayAnd though perchance a lady mayOr by a card our homage pay,Another visit hastes to pay.For follys dues thou hadst to pay.Let us congratulations payTo see his Olga ere the frayCurtly announcing for the frayWith boiling torrent dark and gray;To-morrows dawn will glimmer gray,Driving abreast three horses gray.Friends, I must your indulgence pray.Tis time, my child, arise, I pray!Who? Is it that stout general, pray?Avowal then twas time to pray,Which rushed in eager dense arrayHere bottles stand in close array,His intellect in close array.Behind, of glasses an array,But I abandoned their array,The trees in silvery array,A cup of tea upon a tray.And well-instructed to betray!All with urbanity betray,Nor doth my absent pen portrayMinutely I will now portray.Tattiana purchased with a straySo frequently his mind would strayThither hussars on leave will strayIs this the same Tattiana, say,And thus unto her nurse did say:Discourse of Bentham or of Say,Surveying them, she thus doth say:And starting suddenly doth say:Almost became a poet sayTell me, why doth your comrade stay?Alone beneath your rooftree stayTransfixed Onegin mine doth stay.He cared no longer there to stay,Horror! had she not better stayBut it grew late; he must not stay;A passing snowstorm wreathed awayNor did her blushes fade away,The starry beacons fade away,Carried a truth divine away;Onegin Olga bore away.How oft the kindly Muse awayAnd gallops to her house away.As it were, tore himself away.Ah! what hath fate not torn away!From the dread pistol turn away.Without a chance to slip away.The mystic lines to tear awayDeep in the greenwood far away?And to Onegin far awayBut thoughts meander far awayLost in the hamlet far away.But borne in spirit far awayAlas! Tattiana fades away,But Summer swiftly fades awayI write, and anguish flies away,And calmly sleeps the hours away,It whiled his idle hours awayThe lilys stem to eat away,Unto her husband, went awayWith serious air then went awayResolved the flirt to cast away,Take to their wings and fly away.There jars of cider block the way,His furs are powdered on the wayIn a lax or informal way,He still made love in a queer way;Unto the fields she makes her way,Ah! he has gone the other wayOh! whither have ye winged your way,A hemisphere beneath her sway,Impetuously clove its wayIvan Petrvitch still a gaby,Simeon Petrvitch just as shabby;The Muse appeared, when love passed byOnegin sat the table byBut I was sharp in times gone by.Stops at the tomb in passing by;No trace ye left in passing byAt table she was sitting byThe whirlwind of the waltz sweeps by,A boat with splashing oar floats by,And like a palisade flit by.Alas! my friends, the years flit byAt first, I clung to secrecy:Nor by her sisters brilliancyPossessed nor ease nor fluency,Hearing the fatal perfidy?Tania, observed by nobody,And (elbows on the table) theyTo consanguineous dinners theyMore crimson every moment they.To idle musing was a prey;A lovers letter might convey,Eventually petrifyMay find a crumb to satisfy.He ne'er shall hear Times eulogy,Possess my love and sympathy.The witching light of sympathy;At least by show of sympathy;Eugene was touched with sympathy;I cannot tell the reason why,She fears she cannot.Cannot? Why?Already Autumn chilled the sky,When on the pallid eastern skyThe nights of golden ItalyPresents her quarto amiably,But Eugene, incontestably,Nor shall my pen paint terriblyUpon his couch insensibly;Tattiana asks, and hurriedlyAt morn I must assuredlyAnd now we hear delightedlyWhat agitation languidlyBut not at present, though sincerelyEntrusted all to her sincerely,And turned to leave immediately,No matter, look immediately.Took aimbut as immediatelyDark clouds before the north wind fly;Or innocently past me fly.Delicious nature, thee I fly,Tattiana would attempt to fly,Thus shines the wretched butterfly,The feet of graceful ladies fly,The evanescent fashions flyUnto the gates the servants flyAlas! life's hours which swiftly flyI like this word exceedinglyAnd the world met her smilingly,Though he advanced unceasingly.Harvests of souls unceasinglyEnchanting, but unwittingly,Who will be there?The family.What say you? to the familyAnd like Childe Harold gloomilyPetrovski Palace! GloomilyMute, solemn, frowning gloomily.And the far mountains daintilyTerror assails her. HastilySo from the mountain lazilyI would not part with finally;God save his soul eternallyWith him were friends eternally:But of this love, een casually,To all she answers cruellyBy waters shining tranquilly,Danced the mazurka gracefully,Or other mask donned playfully?Descried before me suddenly!Thus shakes the hare when suddenlyHave my Onegin suddenly.His transports were quite maidenly,What! Grandison?Yes, certainly!The reaping girls approach and plyPrevailed at last. She in replyAs for her spouse he loved her dearly,Though I'll return to him right early,Thou fairy-land! Where formerlyFrom habit or maliciously,Like Venus when, capriciously,Or into bold hands anxiouslyYoull spend your winter famously!In the French language perfectly,Known unto children perfectly:Then send your grandson quietlyTattiana suffered secretly;Then hed malign them secretlyTo lay two covers secretly.Turned to her and discordantlyGrasped a long knife and instantlyOh! I accept. And instantlyConduct Tattiana constantly,The same warm vision constantly;Employ your glasses constantly,She cannotthen impatientlyHe drops his pistol silently.With clouded brow stands silently?Around her neck, now violentlyAnd hebut of him presentlyAnd of the attic. Honestly,Three balls a year he gave ye duly,Having performed his service truly,The artifice of villanyHe brought from mystic GermanyThe captain of a company.But who in that choice companyThere, in that knot of company,Wallow, my friends, in company!The man and liked his company,I thank thee. In thy company,Thou hast resigned thy destinyThen be it so! My destinyAunts, mothers and their scrutiny,There is no stupid calumnyShe loved upon the balconyHath whiled the roads monotony,It occupied him from a boy,Into the study of the boyInstructed jestingly the boy,Not a mere hot, pugnacious boy,Which in the winter were a joy:A labour, torment, yet a joy,In idleness and tranquil joySang childhoods pastimes and its joy,Now for the jealous youth what joy!Wherefore? She found a secret joyThus Nature doth our souls alloy,The happiest days of life employ?The chaise long ordered please employ,Fearing his pupil to annoy,The feeble moment would espyAnd following them ye might espyMust now my stanzas occupy.But more the passions occupyDrive on! the city barriers hoaryLight sallies without coxcombry,She strains her throat to force a cryDark shadows thickena dread cryAnd wakened him with the loud cry:Heedless of your despairing cry?Of clarinet or flute doth cry:I hear your harsh, reproachful cry.Grow harsh and cruel, dead and dry,But my Tattianas eyes were dry.Beneath a cross and shrubbery.Upon the windows tracery,By night prepared for sorcery,But scarce had sleeps soft witcheryAnd turned aside the drapery;The clue unto some mysteryTo be a charming mystery:With ardent sighs and flatteryAlike by sighs and flattery.(Like love, another sort of knavery!)_Sed alia tempora_. And braveryThere dwells five versts from Krasnogory,Adieu, thou witness of our glory,But, her own room in memory,Here, drunk with his late victory,Relate some ancient history.Haste, haste thy lagging pace, my story!Free, I renewed the idolatryThat Ninas marble symmetry,Fragments of northern poetry,And platitudes and pedantry,He feared the criminal might tryWill pass; the same to-morrow tryLapped in your Eastern luxury,Byrons capricious phantasyCarried away by ecstasy,Ye dreams of heavenly poesy?Must bow in common courtesy;Is full of frigid jealousy,Hope to conceal and jealousy,By the sick ladys gaietyLead into good society,Lest jaded with satiety,With jealous fear, anxiety.But man of sense and probity.Upon its damp opacity,This, this were true felicity!Before such fond simplicityCharming with grave simplicity.And mental elasticity.Of Russian domesticity;Yet with a feigned frigidityCursing his own stupidity,(Nonsense and pure absurdity,Discovered much absurdity,By dull insensibility,And then with blind credulityAnd husbands tedious amity?But grant with magnanimityAnd naked uniformity.The blessings of humanity.Like him renouncing vanity,By his embarrassed dignityOf old maids the divinity,I will with thy divinityPassed into dull eternity,Have echoed to eternity.Hears not my importunity!As giddy youths hilarityCharming is your sincerity,As Winter in their purity,Dreams with no continuity,The style of wise antiquity.It carries of antiquityOf kindly, dim antiquity,With hope and then perplexity,With us tis quite a noveltyAlso my wretched libertyThe child of sloth and liberty.Von Wisine, friend of liberty,Idolatry of liberty,I thoughtretirement, liberty,Thou too farewell, my liberty!Of tender years the modesty